Great. It looks like a very fancy hotel. This is the maximum. Looks at is here with me as well. We just finished a meeting both of us with that, I am cool. Nice. Yes. Yes. Great. We just probably hear Andy, we got 100 people. Yes. Great, Great. We have 3 min over. I think we can start. Perfect. Perfect, Wonderful. I'll probably just set some context here. Hello everybody. Welcome to this round of spice guys, all of you this month. And it's a very special month for us in AI. It's because it's gonna be a month of all generative AI. And I know this topic has been going around in a bit of a fancy in most of our cases with clients as well as internally with our families everywhere, including our parents asking us what it is. If like my mother is really intrigued with chat GPD herself. I think when you start to put this in perspective, extension has a huge role to play for our clients. Not only for our clients, but also societal, if you will, with what this is possible. I think the redesigned it hence to flip things. If you all remember, we're going to do Data mesh fabric this month. They said, Okay, why don't we shift that to next month and we'll have Teresa and others talk about it next month. So neat will walk you through what's happening. But this month we're going to dedicate it oscillates too, generative AI. And we said, the best way to start this topic is to start with someone who has been living and breathing and defining what this is for, for Accenture. And I want to very, very happy to tell you all that we've been able to get lawn herself to come and present to us alone is a good friend of mine, the Benin. Hi for quite awhile. Now learn, I think both of us. It's been a pleasure. I've been working with her now probably six intense weeks on this topic of generative AI. And we thought we will kick off this month with lawn being our presenter to walk us through what generative AI is and what is essentially doing and what is her goal. Because she's the Center of Excellence lead for the LLM practice of Accenture as well. Alright, with that context, I think lawn, without further ado, I'll hand it over to you to give us your magic on LLM. And we'll probably do a few questions if that's okay with you learn towards the end of this call. Yeah, that sounds perfect. Thanks, Sam for kicking us off. I know. I know you probably have to jump off. But this is when you reach out, right? I was very, very impressed at this forum. So I'm so happy that I can actually be the guest speaker for this topic. I think, I think our ambition should be this is not the topic of the monks. There should be that topic of the decade, okay. For Accenture, for our client. Just because this is so pervasive and it's still disruptive. But yeah. So I would spend the next 40 min or so, maybe 30 min. Just to go over some of the key highlights. What we are, what we are thinking about this technology, what we are seeing. But more importantly, what we're hearing from our clients, what are we hearing as the market signals? And also, how does Accenture respond to this? I think the gazillion questions that you probably have is, are we ready? Are we jumping in and how do we jump in? So those are the couple of the things that I will cover off and then just do a Q&A at the end. Okay. So I I think I recognize some of the names here on the call. But for those of you I haven't met. I lead data and AI globally in technology, but I sense that a couple of months ago, I was with applied polygons and then I came over to technology to lead this wonderful team. And of course, a couple of weeks ago, I was, I was asked to lead this center of excellence on the global basis for largely language models and generative AI. And just, just a very clear signal, right? Testimonial from our leadership. How much, how much emphasis, how much focus significance that Accenture is playing, it is placing in this space. So I think that's the, that's a little bit of intro about myself and being with Accenture for a little bit over 20 years now and pretty much all my life doing data analytics, artificial intelligence, and I live near a city, so, yeah, so I think that's a little bit about me and that's jump writing. So let's go to the next page is what I want to do. First is just a little bit of a technology contexts, market contexts. And let's keep moving. Okay, So I usually start from a slide like this. And again, you don't need me to tell you how much market bus that we are getting from Chad GPT just a couple of months ago, right? I mean, to me just the yes, we're hearing this is what the news is. What we're hearing in the news all the time. But just like was saying was saying right? What's truly differentiating this time is actually first-time AI is making sense of the general public, right? Password, okay, artificial intelligence is something that only big tech companies we'll be focusing on like Google, Facebook, Microsoft, but this is no longer the case. I think. We also have been talking about this term of democratized ai for a long time. But this is the first time we're actually seeing is truly happening. And then the impact will only be sustaining. Among all of the things. I actually want to mention one of the reports, I would say journal article actually struck me very much just a couple of weeks ago, right? Obviously we're seeing things from New York Times, Washington Post, but there was a journal article actually published by a scientist. Mcgill could sink ski. He's a professor at Stanford University. He actually did a very interesting research and his paper was able to conclude, theory of mind may have spontaneously emerged, enlarge language models. There's literally the paper, the title of the paper. So what the research that he did also generated a lot of buzz on the media. Basically, theory of mind refers to the function of a human mind to infer others. Mental state, purposes, intention, knowledge, beliefs, and things like that, right? And it's really essential to human social interactions, communication, empathy, self-consciousness, and all of these aspects. So after conducting two classic psychological test, this researcher was able to conclude that the model power in check GPT, GPT-3, 0.5 in the background actually has a theory of mine at the level of nine year old children. So I wanted to share this one because it's a critical milestone. And again, it doesn't mean that generative AI is getting to the artificial general intelligence. No, it's not good just to clarify. But the significance of this is it's truly becoming. It can mimic human intelligence. It can mimic the interaction, can be more human-like, which is something that we have never seen before. So I'll just share this one. And for those of you who, who, who, who are we interested, go look up that paper. It's very, very good. But let's go to the next page. So I lipid of what we're hearing in the market. Again, this one just from the technology landscape, right forearm that standpoint. A lot of people asking why now, okay, long if you're saying that that is so disruptive, why now, why didn't we see this five years ago? Why didn't we see the six months ago? Why always seem this timescale like two years later? Well, it's just because history just happens, because of all these critical factors that are getting mature and what are the critical factors? More data, more compute, and also more sophisticated models. Those are the three things that three-dimensions we always talk about and which are the critical driving force. Making this phenomenal really something that we are experiencing right now. Okay? So again, I'm not going to rewind the history here, but you can read the tax year. Basically we're saying that there were 334 waves. If we look at the machine learning, deep learning, artificial intelligence over the last 15 years, right? So there's this beginning of the deep learning phase, right? And that's about 20:15, right? When the lots of research with dedicated to analyzing, using artificial intelligence to analyze perceptual data, right, date, meaning computer data from the vision, data from the speech, data from all kinds of things that humans are capturing From the reward. At that point in time, there was technology breakthrough. Actually make that a possibility. So that's that milestone, right? Then, of course, 23 years ago, there was a famous paper produced by Stanford University, again, the human-centered AI, they coined the first time they coined the term of foundational models. And again, that's now is becoming almost like the buzzword, right? Foundation model, largely language model as the underlying enormous amount of model powering all these applications that we're using today. And then of course now we're getting to that what we call the wave four. Which is now It's basically the liberation, liberation, democratization of all this larger language models. How? Through killer apps. Okay, So this is just a simple way of, I really liked this chart all the way from almost like someone who don't, who are not even technical. Now you can almost see the movie replay over the last 15 years, right, from the machine-learning certification to deep learning. And OK, OK, OK. Now the research has evolved to large language model foundational models as a critical milestone. And then researchers realized that's not enough. You really need to build the killer apps. The apps I lost it. To actually let the whole world, right, realize the power of this. A little bit of what technology or rewinding, just so that you see how the technology has evolved. And obviously, the law of physics, the law of thermodynamics right behind the scene, giving the oldest researchers enormous amount of compute power, ability to crunch and lots of data. This is what we are seeing. Okay, so let's go to next page. Alright, we can quickly skip this one. There's just lots of the number based on our current research, how clients are actually embracing this kind of technology. So before I talk about the business and lovers, you hear a little bit more about the technology driving force behind check GPT. I have to mention one thing before I dive into this. I keep talking about foundational models, right? Largely language models. For those of you who have done some research, hopefully you get the initial tastes. Basically, that is the driving force of all this phenomenon who are saying Chad, GPT dali could be machine translation application, could be another type of chat bot. So from Accenture perspective, we actually putting stake in the ground. We're basically telling everyone, every client is one of our key point of view. Chat GPT, just application, but it's truly what's behind the scene, What's underlying check GPT, which are the foundation of models. That's something that we need to be paying attention to. Okay, Well, one good analogy I always use is think about chat. Think about large language model, also known as the foundational models, as the steam engine, right? As the steam engine as electricity is so foundational. That's why we believe that lots of applications can be built on top of that. But without steam engine, without electricity, right? There's not much we can do. So that's the foundation of power. And again, that just my quick way of calling out what are the key characteristics. I think I have a slide later on just to kind of talk about, okay, well, why is this so important? Of course, first of all, is enormous, right? Everybody has been hearing from the news like check even just GPT-3 has 175 billion parameters, right? It's built based on 500 billion pieces of a text. That's the kind of scale and the data amount of data that we have never seen before me growing up as a data scientist, I've never worked with that much of data. It just impossible. You can't cry. I can crunch my GPU on my single GPU machine. It takes lots of compute power. So that's the first point you need to take away enormous scale. Second point is pre-train nature. It's not just like Oh, okay. Now it's not just the size. Also just the fact that the scientists built this pre-trained model, foundational models without even knowing why. Yes, they build a model, without even knowing why they need to be built on building model. Because the model is so good at analyzing data from all this information available on the worldwide web. And again, the philosophy here is, let's build a model just to mimic how human perceived the war. How humans think about the word, how human reacts with the word, right? So that's the general concept, but that's a super powerful, so pre-train nature. Then the third aspect is about, okay, now it gives us the ability to actually adapt all these models for the downstream task. So again, sequence wise is complete, complete paradigm shift for many of the data scientists on the call here, hopefully you agree with me. In the past or present days, we've always build purpose-built models. Oh, telco wants to understand customer churn that's gather data together. Could be a lot of data, but we build a model specific for that purpose. A bank wants to understand fraud detection. Again, we gather a lot of data and then we build a model to do anti-money laundering detection rate. So that's what we mean by purpose. Bill is no longer like that. Okay. I want you to really note down that take away because that's going to be paradigm shift. It's a general purpose model, pre-trained model, foundational models built by several texts, okay, tech companies. And then now it opens up enormous amount of opportunities. For us, right Accenture to work with our enterprise clients to figure out how they can customize that model. How do they can fine tune that model to actually bringing their own proprietary data so that this kind of adaptation would give our clients unique competitive advantage that they were not able to get before. So I cannot stress enough the importance, important point of this, that's why I didn't have a slide. Because I wanted to make sure that you hear from me directly, write the disruptive power of the foundational models. Okay? Now you're like, Okay, tell me a couple of examples. If this is all technology talk, give me some examples. What can they do? Numerous use cases because of the pre-trained nature, just like how, you know how human works with numerous, numerous use cases. We summarize them into four different buckets on the left-hand side. And I will talk about just function by function, business unit by business unit. How this is changing the way that client is doing business. How is this changing the way that how Accenture is helping our clients? So I really like to look at the bubbles on the left-hand side. I'll always talk about this is, this is again, unique way of giving us the huge boost in productivity, human productivity. Not only that, this is also unleashing enormous amount of creativity from humans. Because a lot of times we think about humans are doing things much. Now machines are doing things that human can do, but not thinking that humans are really good at being creative. And of course, cost optimization, that's real. That's just acknowledge that the power of this power of generative AI, large language models is optimizing costs, is to some degree that it's displacing some of the human jobs, but those may be the mundane, routine jobs that nobody wants to do, right? So you can take it over to certain degree. Of course, the democratization of all these will provide equal opportunities, inclusive opportunities for much larger population, general public in the world. Those are the couple of n, of course things levers like creating new experiences which directly tied to revenue, revenue for our clients. These are the pretty common things. Let me give you a couple of examples. Just the real client demand that we are working on Thursdays from the Center of Excellence, like e.g. there's a very large TV news network in the US. And the client, basically, I'm working with us right now using our one of our solutions to actually auto summarize, basically create news editorial from all the sports events that they, they are broadcasting to the worldwide audience. Why is that the case? Because now, instead of working with human editors who spends a lot of time actually writing the summaries of all these TV shows, TV events, sports events could be Rhode Island women's basketball making things, right. That's kinda long tail sports events. Now, imagine our AI news editor will be able to watch the events. At the same time, listen to the transcript of the events. And then at the end of the events, just like human, right, that it can actually write out thousands of wars of new summary for this particular sports match. Okay, so that's one example. Another example is we're working with hotel and I would say travel and hospitality client. And actually, again, another very good example of how we're using AI to create new experiences, not just automating things, which will lead to more revenues, new revenue stream for this client. So this one is very cool. So obviously as we know, right? So some of the generative AI will be capable of generating graphic contents. So actually something that we have also piloted with multiple clients is ai visual content editor, right? So in that case, ai can actually generate stunning, stunning visual content based on the similar technology, right? So in this case, the hospitality client say, Okay, you know what, That's great. I can use that to actually equate my homeowners and private homeowners and the villas business owners to take pictures. So basically create pictures of their properties so that all this, just like Airbnb, that all of these property owners will have better conversion rate in the past. They are telling us for each property it takes in the past, they will take them $20,000 just to get something like this. Now within 15 min, the private own homeowners, homeowners will be able to get this kind of visual content very, very, very, very compelling way. So that's another example that I think is pretty cool, right? So going from texts to different kinds of image generation in a fork, of course you can, you can imagine the same technology can play to video contents too. So I think there are also numerous examples in marketing space, right? So in marketing, creative space, content production space that we already working with several clients about, right? To actually using this kind of a generic technology to create hyper personalized marketing creatives, marketing briefs, marketing content, creating localized contents with local languages, and taking care of the cultural nuances. A lot of these great things already happening. I think one thing, that 11 thing that I heard from the client, who was the CMO in one of the very large Fortune ten clients. They actually describe to me the true disruptive power of this. In their case, what I just described, it's not like, Oh, just because of a better model, right? They they basically told me that their models today can already produced recommendation to the segment of one. But the biggest challenge that they face was actually production, was actually taking this kind of model insights and take actions in this, in this case, actions is actually produce super personalized content. So now they see the path, right to do that because of a generative AI. Something that I never, I found that very interesting to hear that from our client. Another set of example would be in the coding space, right? So again, that's also very much available on the news and you hear a lot of things about how the programming space coating technology will get disrupted, which is true. It's really happening around us. And I just read the case study produced by our ATC colleagues, right? And actually they were able to demonstrate about 50% of the productivity gains by using AI assistant software development. So I think this is my attempt covering several types of use cases. So some of them I hear from the client, some of them we are working with a client with, some of them are things that we are actually doing to Accenture. So hopefully this paint that picture right to you that truly everywhere. Ai's, this kind of technology is truly everywhere. This kind of technology is truly disrupting everybody. This, this kind of technology is truly disrupting and happening in every aspect of the business. So I think that's the that's a very important point, right? And I find my law sounding like a broken record was the AI for everybody, AI for everyone, ai for everyday business, every, every ai for everyday life. That's truly differentiating. Okay, let's go to the next page. Alright, so I think I already covered some of this. That's another very important point that I think differentiating how our perspective, our perspective from some of the competitors learn. I think you're on mute. Okay. I don't know how that happened. But anyway, yeah, so think about this as a multilayer technology, multi-layer learning, which I already kinda touched on. That data is super-important in this, in this case, not just the public data, not just enormous amount of publicly available data like Wikipedia data, like all kinds of images on the Internet, right? All kinds of documents, Books, one books to Common Crawl, all this dataset know not just that. I always want to remind people that this is actually the time that if you are the enterprise clients, extremely important for you to pay attention to your proprietary data, right? Things that we've been talking to them for years. Now can all be more important in the context of generative AI. Why? Because as you see in this picture, this is becoming your source of competitive advantage. Then the second layer is this, what we call the foundational models. Remember the steam engine analogy that I gave earlier. But it's not like we expect clients like sing tell clients like Telstra, clients like I don't know, another larger client in apec and growth market area, right? Well, I told them that they will be building their own foundational models. No, very rare, okay. In this case, this is what the larger technology companies will be investing, would be innovating, what they will be focusing on, which is super good, right? Because they do the heavy lifting for all of us. Okay, then what we really need to be focusing on is, are the first two, top two layers, which is a fine tuning, meaning, Okay, now I can bring in a little bit of data. I can bring in a little bit of that, my company data to really focus and the adaptation of the downstream task. That's a fine tuning through prompt learn, engineering, through all kinds of techniques like few-shot learning, zero-shot learning, right? Prefix tuning. So all this is. Something that we can help client list right on top of foundational models. And then on the top right, like I said, it opens up enormous opportunities for us to help clients build business applications. Which is again, the another way of thinking about what I talked about earlier, which is the killer apps Europe. Okay, since I'm talking about this, let me go to the next slide because I can tell you the next slide is exactly showing this schematic view of the complexity of this technology and also the enormous amount of opportunities not going through the details here, you can look at this slide later. But basically is this is, this one does a pretty good job, right? Two things. One is actually laying out the, basically the two layers of architecture that I just talked about, which is models on the bottom right foundation ML models and then applications. And on the top through fine-tuning. And a lot of times I think people get them confused as i 0 check GBT is the model. We should just focus on chat GPT. Oh, okay. Oh, another type of concern will be okay. How do we work with GPT-3 issue? We, as a company, go build something like that. All of these are wrong questions, okay, So again, that's what this schematic view is about. And what I always when I shared this with a client, I always tell them. Did you realize the bottom layer, this all this foundational models? They only belong to or they only done by less than ten companies in the world. So again, remember that all the computing requirement that I talked about earlier, all the data requirement that I talked about earlier, and also enormous amount of requirements on the people, on the talents. So that's what's happening on the bottom, heavy lifting. On the top. It's all the applications that, you know, some of them we have, we have played with, some of them, we have seen some of them we have heard, but I can tell you more of them will be coming out. Okay. So that's, that's the key message on this picture. And last point is you see the middle that read this middle spine or you see the text on the left-hand side. Why do we call it our all these things? What because this is the multimodal aspect of this foundational models. It's not just text, it's not just code. Computer code is not just image. It's also videos, it's also 3D contents. In some cases, we're seeing all of them are coming together, right? Becoming live digital person kind of manifestation and rendering. So all this is happening has go to the next page. So I cover some of the key aspects on the left-hand side, right foundational models. Why do they have enormous amount of potential? They are large, they are generative, they are adaptable, they can be customized. So hopefully all these points are resonating with you. Right hand side. Just like any disruptive technology, always talk about that. It's not perfect. But we're not waiting for the technology to get perfect before we actually dive in. Okay, So that's a key message. So understanding the limitations of this technology, understanding some of the potential buyers concerns, understanding some limitations with IP rights with being 100% accurate, right? And so that we can actually put down the guardrails so that we can guide the users, right? How do we work around all of this and limitations, shortcomings so that we can help the clients to get ahead of the game. That's what this page is about. We do for Accenture perspective, we do have very clear guidelines for our people. How we want to look at this technology and also how we work with Accenture. So this is the area that we're really excelling ahead of, ahead of a lot of our competitors to bring the clarity. When do you need to use it? When you should not be thinking about this, right, and some of the particular guidelines. Okay, let's go to the next page. So a couple of things. I think, again, when we talk to clients and we talk about technology, we talked about some use cases that we can be doing with them. I think oftentimes client gut, they asked a question right now, what do I do with this? Told me a couple of things that I should be thinking about to actually get ahead of my competitors, right? Things that foundational steps that I can be thinking about. This is the basics. These are the six practices that you should be thinking about. Get your data ready, right? Sound like a broken record. How important the data is. You need to, second thing, you need to start investing in your foundational AI architecture. So a lot of capabilities I've been rattling off, right? Okay, It's actually all available in the AI foundation. And I think this is a huge gap many, many clients face. Okay? The third one and fourth one kinda come together. This is really the time for us to help the client to rethink their operating model. I know this is something that we've been saying for many years to write. But now because of the foundational models, think about disruptive power. The overall operating model within every client, every business in the past, again, super decentralized, right? Lots of data scientists sitting in on the client side across multiple business units, right? Fragmentation silos, all of these things that we've been hearing. Now, I'm seeing concentration, I'm seeing a lot of this fragmentation of getting, solve are getting, they are coming together even within the client. They see the power of foundational models. Those they are seeing this hub and spoke model and organizing a lot of their resources according to the density of all this foundational model. That's something that it's very, very important for us to pay attention to. Revamp talent strategy. Again, cannot go more important, right? Lots of kind of facing talent gaps. And it's not just the classic data science, AI Engineering, machine-learning kind of challenge. Right now they realize new roles are getting created, new knees. What the business domain leaders to actually lean in to embrace this kind of technology. What do I mean by that? New roles, right? I always talk about prompt engineers, right? So again, it's all over the news, right? You guys were here that would see that the prompt engineers, basically the new roles, new skills required to communicate with all these modular machine models so that you can actually converse with the models to get the answers, to get, to generate the content. That's a new skill set that never existed before until a couple of months ago. So I know go potty on the on the call here. Right. So we're actually working very hard to stand up our first-ever prompt engineer, Engineering Academy bootcamp to train hundreds of people. Hopefully thousands of people, write very soon, right? To provide this as a service, right? We should be bold enough to say prompt engineering as a service to a lot of our clients because this is a huge Yona, the demand out there. Okay, so revamped talent strategies. That's just one example we also talk about. Now we're getting to the era of AI generating a lot of contents and we know they are not accurate. But then, but then now we actually need humans to do the QC of the oldest outputs. Isn't that nice? Now we're checking the elbow from AI, could be the outputs of the quality. That could be the accuracy of the outputs, could be quality of the outputs, could be inclusion, diversity aspect of the output could be language, toxicity of the outputs, all of these aspects. So that's again, another great example of how humans and machines are working together. A dream that we've been talking about for decades. The number five is about insurer comprehensive governance right now, just responsible ai, explainable AI. Also all these cultural aspects of style, the aspect that I just talked about, a lot of clients are needing help from us. And the last point is embracing the AI ecosystem, right? And then I'll jump to the next page is super important hopefully by now 40 min in. You got the point. This is the totally different ball game using Western language. Very different ball game. We play in the smaller leagues. Now, we jumped to the major leagues because, because of the enormous power and foundational models. But a lot of kinds can do that by themselves. Because of the computer requirements, because the sustainability concerns, because of the lack of talents for them to embrace lots of ecosystem partners like our Microsoft, Amazon, Google, of course Max partners. But not only that, also very lots of Nietzsche startups in the AI space. So that clients can get the power, get the help from all this ecosystem partners instead of building things by themselves, because that's just not possible. So with that being said, let's go to, I don't know which one, but maybe go to the ecosystem slide because I want to give the team of flavor. Yeah, we can skip some of this, right? Lots of contents as you can tell here, to stay on this one. I even included a demo page. So demo page where YouTube play with a couple of videos on the media exchange. Okay, so, but this one is very important. Okay, So now we're switching to a little bit to war Accenture differentiator. We talked to a client about, okay, you need to embrace ecosystems, but it's hard. So we actually have done a lot of leg work to put down our picture. So what is this? This is the current picture snapshot of our ecosystem partners. How we bring them together, Accenture bring all of them together so that we can. Selectively take some of their technology, brings some of their technology to clients. Bottom. I already talked about that. All the hyperscalers middle part, lots of the data partners that we've been working with for years. Now, we're elevating elevating their ecosystem. There horsepower to help clients speed up. A lot of you building a lot of proprietary data set for them. On the top is truly exciting. Some of the startups that we will be doing joint marketing with over the next couple of weeks, right? Very quickly. Yeah. Someone's asked the question about OpenAI. Yes. We are hitting the reset button. And I'm personally driving that OpenAI partnership. We will be seeing lots of progress on that front, but not just that right. Scale somebody, Nova, Nvidia, these three just as examples. Or Silicon Valley startups, very hot startups by billions of dollars of market cap right now. And very differentiated technology and also what they can provide to us. It's actually private edition of the larger language models that some of this large attack would not be able to do. I saying asked me to bring up this slide because this is important when we go to client, right? A lot of the competitors are catching up. So all the talk that I've been talking, a lot of competitors now they're like, Oh, okay, Let's Accenture perspective. We can say that too. But our solutions, our assets, right, the demos that we skipped earlier, and also our ecosystem. This is very hard for competitors to replicate. Okay? So our ability to say, oh, you know what? This for you to work with very secure, like pri, private data from banks, right? For a compliance reason, you can't just throw them into OpenAI. We're the API services, you don't do that. Client shut shut us down right away. Right. So how do we articulate for that particular knee, we can stand up a private edition of the larger language model so that their data is secure, right? But at the same time, they can gain immediate access. The larger language model behind the scene, that's not easy to do, right? Same thing could apply to the health care client, right? So lots of the private data information, the proprietary inflammation. So again, how do we articulate the architecture? How do we help him pick some of the use cases? Could be speeding up the clinical reviews, could be automating a lot of a lot of the, you know, the legacy of proprietary information, right? And so that we can help them strike the balance of very balanced act. That's something that a lot of competitors are not able to do. I see someone will ask a question about responsible AI. Yeah. Okay. I see that. Now that's a very good question. Yes, that's another key advantage. Absolutely. I don't know who's asking that question. Okay, so again, we've been investing in responsible ai, explainable AI for years, right? And Paul Doherty will agree with me that we have something industry-leading for responsible AI. So this is a prime time for something like that. But I even challenge, are responsible AI team, what we have, the controls are governance. The thought process that we have today is not enough. Okay? We probably is just covering about 30% of what some of the newer risk, newer limitation that we're experiencing with large language model, both on the module level and also on the application level. So we need to keep growing that offering. Okay, how do we address, like I said, language a toxicity? How do we address the groundedness of the models, which is not something that we pay attention before. It's more about fairness, transparency, explainability, and things like that. But now it's about how, how, how do you ensure models are coherent, right? How do you ensure that the perplexities scores of the models are meeting the human requirements. How do you ensure inclusion and like I said, inclusiveness and diversity of the contents that generated by the, by all this models, newer challenges to our Responsible AI team, but I'm sure we will, we will come up with a new offerings, new assets to actually answer those questions. So very good. Caught out here. So anyway, I think this is, I know I share a lot earlier, right? So let me just quickly recap how Paul we're looking at technology foundational models is disruptive. That's pay attention to that. That's point number one. Point number two, Accenture. Or we talk about different buckets of the business impact ray from marketing to content to customer support too. You know, finance and accounting to procurement supply chain. This is, I would say, the prime time for us to use generative AI as a secret weapon to disrupt it, to really power at the total enterprise transformation. Turn our strategy right, Go overall, corporate strategy. How do we make sure that that's part of the digital core to impact the total enterprise reinvention. To me, it's not just a slogan, is not just what we talk about the technologies truly there. And it's our, it's our job to actually make that happen. That's the second point. The third point is the technology is not perfect. So that's grow our Responsible AI framework to actually overcome some help can overcome some of these limitations, which brings unique opportunities to us. And then the last point, I will say this, the ecosystem, the role of the ecosystem, and how do we make that part of our key differentiators? This is something, again, we have never seen before. So it's time to lean in and we have so many learning content available to the team depends on your roles. But I cannot tell you how exciting this space is and how rewarding this space is. And again, jumping, leaning, diving, whatever, right, and Lauren and start practicing a lot of the skills. And feel free to reach out. To me and some of the key members of the Center of Excellence, Actually, a lot of them are in growth markets, So we're here to help. Okay? I think you learn, those is brilliant. And I think this sets the stage for us in a, in an awesome way for us in growth markets really, really appreciate that. I know there are a lot of questions that have come in. Num Nieto. You there your own. Yes, I'm here. Okay. Okay. I think as we probably finished our first session here, Let's probably capture some of these questions and then probably know respond back to the to the teams. Let's definitely do that. And let's probably walk through what is going to be the rest of R1 month of generative AI that we are going to be conducting here in growth markets. I think go Pali is also in the call. I think I saw her somewhere. So if you and go palate can cover that, would really, really appreciate that line. Of course, you or your guidance on The schedule will be wonderful to have two for us. Yeah. Now I'm happy to come back. When timing is right to share more progress. We didn't have a time to cover what we're doing. In Center of Excellence is there's just lots of resources and I cannot stress enough the talents in growth markets just amazing. Okay, so sands team, Daniels team, right, and go Pauli's team all working together. This is truly one Accenture wonder. Yeah, no, absolutely. Thank you. Thank you so much for that. And with that, we really get into the closing note. Thank you everyone for joining. We have good Polya's. We said who had that capability on Jenny I as well. So thank you so much for being here. And what you see on your screen is of full month, almost exciting few weeks that we want to cover Jenny I and in as much depth as possible. In fact, we revamped the way we use to run our spice sessions, which were once a week, but we now want to make them twice a week. We want to keep the bus, we want to keep the momentum and keep everybody engaged. So that's what you see on the screen with the kickoff that we have today. It's wonderful. We'll come back to you with the responses to your questions. We will not lose any of them, don't worry. But we'll try and address them as we get into the next few weeks of exemplary. Then I stopped that. When Accenture is intending to do. We will start with the industry showcase next week with the assessment on the offerings that we offer, we will get into into the legal risks and implications of Jenny I, which is the hot button topic as we get into responsibly I, Jenny, I overlapped, etc. We'll talk about our ecosystem and partnership in how one acts and just support that. Moving on to another round of industry showcase with retail, CG and S and energy. And as we may need, we will get into further sessions on this topic to see if we have more appetite from the group. Also, at the side, we are planning for real detailed training curriculum as well so that we support the thousands and tens of thousands trained Jenny I professionals that we were talking about in the session with land today. So really look out for much more information and much more activity on this topic in general. But especially for joining in, for who joined us late, very late or very early. Thank you again for your support and look forward to having you for the rest of the series as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bye, guys. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. 