Great. Hi. Thanks so much for the introduction and thanks so much for having me as pretty mentioned. My name is Ray Schwab. I am the lead for the Assets and Solutions Legal Team within Global Services Legal, among other teams. My team provides product counsel support for my Wizard Wizard, Jen Light. The primary tools that you've been hearing about today for purposes of our discussion today. What I'll be covering first is some background on the legal support that my team has provided for Jen Wizard and Jen Light so that you have some understanding of what legal diligence has already been conducted when you're interacting with and learning about these tools and thinking about carrying them forward for delivery. Then in the second segment of my talk, I'll go into a little bit more detail about some of the templates and guidance documents that we have available. Right now, my team works very closely with Kaushik and the leads for each of these respective products so that we make sure that we're tracking and providing documentation that supports speed to delivery. I'll talk a little bit about that. Then in the final piece of my presentation, I'll talk in a little bit more detail about some of the delivery specific factors that can cause changes and variations from our templates and our standards. And how to think about those and how to address those. I'll talk in a little bit of detail about some of the areas like IP where we have some best practices, some preferences, and some hard lines that we need to maintain in our deliveries in order to adhere to and protect the structure and the growth that you've been hearing about and we'll continue to hear about through this presentation. I am going to screen share a deck. So give me just a second to get that up. Okay, so hopefully that is sharing. Now, let me just go into presentation mode. There we go. Hopefully everyone can see that right now. And of course it is not giving me my notes. My apologies. I need just another second to get to make my notes visible at the outset. I want to, as I mentioned, a little bit more detail on how we provide support for Jen Wizard and Light, and relatedly my wizard and other assets and platforms. I'm going to talk about it generally and then we'll get more specific about Jen, Wizard and Enlight. Generally speaking, we focus our legal support on three primary areas today. The focus of this training is on this third area, enabling speed to deployment through the use of guidelines, templates, things like that. But in order to get to that third pillar and be in a position where we can enable speed to use for unique projects with unique considerations, we have to work through the first two areas, which are design and development during the design and development phase. As legal, we work closely with the development and engineering teams who drive En Wizard and Gen Light to give them best practices and guidance that will help make the speed to use more feasible. Because if we can embed best practices, legal best practices early and we can stay close to the development of the implementation and the commercial models, We reduce risk at each further step in the process. Across these three areas, we're generally looking at the same core risk areas. These tend to fall into a few different buckets. One of the primary risk areas that we consider and evaluate, and that I know I've mentioned already today several times, is intellectual property. From a legal perspective, we tend to think about that in two different ways. We've got third party IP and Accenture IP. They're both intellectual property, but we need to think about them very differently. So when we're thinking about third party IP, our goal from a legal support perspective is to make sure that our development teams are considering how to appropriately use third party IP within the rights that we have. So that we can go forward and confidently implement a tool that's been built using some component of third party IP. In some way, we work closely with the developers and engineers to understand what third party IP is relevant. And here for Jen Wizard and Jen Light, we've done that across the board so that we can conduct an analysis and understand are we using that third party IP consistent with the rights and principles that are memorialized in whatever agreement it is that we have with that third party. When it comes to eccentriP, the considerations are almost the mirror. When it comes to AccentuIP, what we're really focused on and thinking about is how do we protect and maximize the benefit of Accenture IP. We've heard discussions today about developments on client projects, enhancements, modifications. We work closely with the Enlight and Gen Wizard team to number one, put in place protective measures that help ensure we are protecting Accenture IP, the day one IP that we bring in at the start of an engagement. But then also thinking strategically about developments that happen after day one of an engagement. And I'll talk a little bit more detail in the third part of my presentation about how we do that and how we support project teams. Because this is an area where we can get into project by project variations. Open Source is a huge consideration on this slide and from a legal perspective, what we're talking about when we refer to open source is the public body of open source content that anyone can access and that we may use to augment our development. Complying with open source and particularly accentures open source policy is a critical part of legal risk mitigation, especially as products evolve and change over time. Data is another core risk area. Here again, I'm going to divide the way that I discuss data into two different areas. There's data that we use during the development phase, which tends to be data that we source from vendors and use for testing purposes. That data is evaluated similar to third party IP. We need to make sure that the negotiated rights that we have permit us to do what we want to do. The other big bucket of data that we often consider that often we consider is client data. We'll think about data in the abstract, How does the tool generally want to process data, what types of data are relevant? But then moving forward and thinking about a specific project implementation, we need to think about what client data is actually going to be relevant, what will be touched, where will it move? And do we have the permission from the client to be moving their data in this way? And I think I heard a question earlier in this session about the client code and the movement of client code. That's exactly the type of issue that we're describing here and that we consider here. Have we obtained the appropriate permissions and consents from the client to move their information in the way that we need to in order for the project to work. Then the last bucket here that's highlighted is deployment risk. This is a broader area that varies platform to platform. Asset by asset really is where we dive into unique considerations that arise because of the asset itself or the platform itself and what it's designed to do. For purposes of Jen Wizard and Gen Light, one of the big areas of deployment risk that we evaluated was the use of generative AI. We worked closely with the generative AI, LLM, COE Legal team to conduct an evaluation, develop the best practices that are aligned with the overall Accenture best practices in this area, but speaking more generally about. Asset and platform reviews. This deployment risk could cover any type of variation that may be nonstandard. For example, if we have an asset that is ingesting biometric data or some other type of heavily regulated information, or is designed to be used in a specific high risk area. We would evaluate that as part of the deployment risk. When we look at each of these risk factors, we consider them in the context of the use case and the deployment model. So the analysis of any one of these factors is going to vary depending on how the asset or platform is designed to be implemented. So for example, the analysis of open source policy compliance is different when you've got a posted a platform that stays on an Accenture environment as opposed to when you've got an code base that we're going to take out and install on client infrastructure. I actually tend to think of these as more like dials and you have to think about how do I turn the dial to fit the use case and deployment model that we have at hand. And that's why we're tracking very closely with the commercial models and the implementation models that Kashi was talking about earlier to make sure that we're doing the analysis to support the deployment models that you'll be carrying forward. Moving on, I'm going to move through this slide fairly quickly given the focus today is on delivery. But this slide is intended to capture the best practices that we do share design and development phase, to help support our engineers in implementing a reduced risk profile when they go to develop assets that they want to carry forward to you. We've worked with the Jen Wizard and the light teams on each of these topic areas and others to help them implement best practices and continue to implement best practices. Going forward, I'm going to move forward, now, I'm skipping quite a dense slide, happy to take questions or move back. When we come to the Q and A segment, I'm going to bring some of this together and talk about this. Go to market legal Risk Review that I've been describing. When I was talking about those risk areas, I was really focused in on how we conduct this. Go to market legal risk review, which is the type of work that my team and my peers in global services do. The type of support that we provide for re, usable assets. We work with the product team to think about what are the planned deployment models and use cases, What reviews have already been completed looking across? As I've heard mentioned earlier today, there are several relevant legal reviews That we work with the product team to make sure those reviews have been conducted consistent with the intended deployment models and use cases, for example, to carry forward the example that I used earlier, we work with the product team to make sure that the open source review that was conducted for product aligns with the actual planned deployment model so that there isn't a disconnect or a risk analysis gap. Sometimes we find that when we work with product teams, they have to go back and reopen some of these reviews in order to make the reviews align with the planned use cases or deployment models. But more often what we see is that a product or a platform will start with maybe two commercial models or three commercial models or deployment models. And then over time we'll develop new deployment models that will require a re, analysis of some of these factors. We support the product teams in thinking about that, in analyzing that and making sure that those reviews have been conducted. So that we can confidently support movement forward into client engagements. At this stage in the go to market legal risk review, what we also do is work with the platform and asset teams to develop guard rails and templates which I referenced earlier with the hope that those will be used in various client engagements to help speed. The design, the negotiation, and then ultimately the contracting process to set you up for faster delivery. So we really stand at a point in time here prior to client engagements, but my team tends to work very closely with contracting counsel and contract managers across client engagements to help them understand how to implement guard rails, how to use template terms, and how they can make variations from template terms. I'm going to move forward now and talk in a little bit more detail about what currently exists for Jen Wizard and Jen Light. I'm going to start with my wizard, the backstop, because I think it gives some important historical context. My team has been supporting my wizard from a legal perspective for some time, we've developed a very robust contracting guidance, Powerpoint, that contracting counsel and contract managers identify the best starting point template for their engagement based on some of the factors that we heard discussed earlier. For example, is the client comfortable with SS or do they want it hosted on their infrastructure? Will clients access? Will third parties access it? Factors like that. And we work closely with the asset and platform teams to make sure that the guidance tracks with the actual deployment models. We've historically developed a very robust set of materials for My Wizard, included both the guidance and the resulting templates. When Jen Wizard was first released, we realized that there was going to very quickly be the need for some contracting to cover Jen Wizard as distinct from my Wizard. I'm actually I'm going to skip down a line here and talk about Wizard new client engagements. We realized that we would basically have two different types of clients from a templating and contracting perspective. We were going to have clients who were existing, my Wizard clients and we're moving to Jen Wizard and then clients who had no historical My Wizard implementation and we're moving directly to Jen Wizard. The contracting needs for those two different types of clients are a little bit different. Because the first type of client who has a historical My Wizard implementation presumably has existing paper and contracts that cover the My wizard implementation. So we recognized there wasn't a need to go back and duplicate the terms that were already obtained when we negotiated the My Wizard engagement. What we developed here in the second line is a short two page Jen Wizard addendum that is intended to be used with clients, legacy my Wizard clients who are migrating to Jen Wizard. These terms and conditions can be quite short because they are focused on the generative AI aspects that are being added to the engagement. And one of the key components of these terms and conditions is the consent. These terms give us the consent from the client to use their data and information with generative AI products. That's a really key legal risk mitigation step. But we've been able to keep this quite short because the hope is that this can be a very efficient, speedy conversation with legacy My Wizard clients. For clients that have no legacy, my wizard implementation and are moving directly to Jen Wizard. We've developed a parallel contracting guidance document that helps contracting counsel and contract managers use various factors to identify the right starting point template. So some of the other factors, in addition to the ones that I mentioned a moment ago, will there be a leave behind? Is this an enterprise wide agreement or some narrower subset? So these types of factors are covered in the contracting guidance. Help lead contracting counsel and contract managers to the right starting point template for Jen Wizard. These En Wizard terms cover both the base historical My Wizard terms plus the NAI factors that we saw in the Jen Wizard addendum. As with all of our templates, these templates have margin, internal margin comments to support your contracting counsel and contract managers in thinking about where they can implement variations and where they cannot implement variations. We similarly have a template starting point for Enlight. We currently have a single template that can be a starting point for the different models that were discussed earlier. As the Enlight team moves forward, we anticipate that we may develop additional templates to match additional desired commercial models. I'm now going to move forward and talk a little bit about some of the factors and considerations that come up in the context of specific projects and how we think about them from a legal support model, when we're thinking about the future growth and development of a platform like Jen Wizard and an asset like Jen Light. One of the ones that I've mentioned several times and I've mentioned by other speakers and folks who've asked questions is intellectual property. I'm going to repeat a little bit of what I said earlier because it is a really critically important point. But our templates and our guidelines are intended to ensure that we are protecting accentures, intellectual property on day one. So we want to take steps to protect the IP that we bring into the engagement so that we maximize our ability to continue to reuse that IP with future different clients. We also have guidance in our templates and materials about the treatment of IP that is developed during client engagements. And this is where we work closely with contracting counsel and contract managers to sometimes think through how our legacy agreements with particularly large long time clients may impact how we contract for IP post implementation IP on a client specific basis. Our baseline is that we retain enhancements and modifications and then there are some variations based on how we're implementing and which product we're talking about. Because the implementation considerations for Jen Light and Jen Wizard are a little bit different given how they're designed to be implemented. But we always do have an eye for thinking about maximizing how Accenture can continue to grow these products. And how Accenture can continue to benefit from the work that our developers do and the intellectual capital that we're bringing in. My team is available to, to support your contracting counsel and contract managers. To think about these in specific contexts to make sure that we are striking the right balance but also protecting accenture data is another critical point that is covered in the templates. This is another area where we do see client variation. Our focus is on obtaining the appropriate consent to enable us to do what we want to do or what we are working with the client to agree that we intend to do. This is where we also see some project by project variation. Because we may have a client who wants data to stay entirely in their infrastructure and they may be getting a Gen Light implementation that's different from a client who has a Gen Wizard implementation that's hosted in our environment and used only by our developers to enhance our services delivery. The templates and the guidance give the permissible the baseline language and guidance on how to think about these different facets of it. Like intellectual property, we're happy to work with contracting counsel and contract managers to think through any unique circumstances that arise because of our client relationships. Access, again, another topic that I've referenced earlier. We've worked with the Jen Wizard and Jen Light teams to develop baseline principles around who can access our platforms and tools. Is there a question? Okay. Dimple, Can you go on mute? Yeah, we have worked closely with the Enlight and Gen Wizard teams to think through the baseline access turns in our templates and the permissible variations from those baseline terms. Because as was saying earlier, there are different client expectations when En light is going to be implemented in a client environment and is intended to be used by client employees. Than there are for something like a Gen Wizard implementation that's hosted on our infrastructure and only accessed by Accenture employees. Our templates consider the range of these, but we do see that this is a topic that comes up repeatedly. Like the other topics, we're happy to work with your teams to support that. Our templates do also cover certain requirements. These are particularly relevant in this instance when we've got certain dependencies. I like to think about this in terms of clarity on the allocation of responsibility on the topics. That's particularly relevant for Gen Wizard and Enlight is clarity around who's responsible for bring and granting access to the third party generative AI product that's going to be used to power the delivery. Our templates are designed to spur a conversation around that and help memorialize that in a way that gives clarity and transparency. The generative AI product is just one example. Particularly with En Wizard, there are more detailed requirements that are enumerated in our templates and can be modified and removed to fit a particular delivery scenario. Because not all will be relevant all the time, but they're intended to help drive a conversation and move toward clarity. I'm going to move quickly through the next few limitations and then skipping down asset specific. There are instances where we need to insert requirements that are specific to a particular asset or platform. These are typically outlined in a template and noted as something that is a requirement in Gen Wizard and Jen Light, particularly the terms around generative AI, the data consents, those are the critical terms that are highlighted. Vendor terms, there are often required vendor flow ups or flow downs depending on how you see it that have to be added on. That can vary based on what are the client dependencies and what are accentures dependencies, Those aspects of the conversation really feed each other. Then the last point, transparency. As I mentioned a moment ago, our goal with all of this is to reach a point where we can quickly and easily move to deployment with clarity around all of these different important factors. As I mentioned, we have a few different formats as I've mentioned several times, guidelines and templates. We maintain these on the legal site that's available to your contracting counsel and contract managers and has been shared with them. But we also are happy to work with you and your teams and share information as needed. So maybe I'll pause there and see if there are any questions. What's the starting point for us? Kay, in case if we need to do any prototype, right? Okay, so what's the starting point? For us to get engaged with the legal. Okay, I mean, it could be any small prototype that we want to do, right? Okay, and what could be an influencing factor? More, is it like more use, case driven, or is it more like the engagement that we have with the client? Okay. Could be the starting point for us. Yeah. So I would say it's if you're doing like a small POC in the context of a specific client with an eye toward delivering to a specific client, then you would start within the realm of that client. So I would suggest starting with the contracting manager, the contracting counsel as your first legal POC because they will know what's within the scope of what is already provided for with that client. We can support directly when we're talking about development outside the context of a specific client. So just in a general sense or what we often do is we will get looped in by the product team and then we'll facilitate a connection with the contracting counsel and the contract manager. It depends a little bit, but those are the groups that are going to be involved in supporting it. And ultimately how it gets supported and whether there's contracting that needs to happen with the client is going to depend a bit on, number one, the scope of what you're trying to do. And number two, what we may already have agreed to with the client. That's why I keep emphasizing that we work with contracting counsel and contract managers because we support the platform, We support Jen Wizard and Jen Light, and we know that very well. Contracting counsel and contract managers are knowledgeable about their specific clients. And we come together to understand how do those two pieces fit together? From a legal perspective, is it mandated for us to go through the review process? Okay, if we need to demo to the client for any prototype that we do, tried to doing it to the client, just yeah. So for Jen Wizard and Jen Light, I'm going to give my very lawyerly answer. I'm going to say it depends a little bit. It depends a little bit on what type of demo you're describing and what type of information and what type of relationship we have with the client. So there's a difference between a demo where we may actually be asking the client to interact with us or give us some data for purposes of showing them how powerful the tool can be. And so there we might need to ensure that we have the right consensus to facilitate that. That's different than if we're screen sharing something that is built based on totally not client specific data. We haven't received any information from them with a client with whom we have a robust contracting history and engagement history. 