Hello everyone. I know this is another interesting topic after legal I think we touched upon. Are you there? I have with me on banker as well on leads the security for asset engineering. And what we are going to do is next 15 to 20 minutes, we will take you through A what are the security considerations we use for the development of assets like, you know, Gen Zar and other assets. The second thing is more on what kind of controls we are put in place. Because I think as you are going to have more client discussions about the proof of concept and adoption gens quite promising but at the same time there are some inherent risk client must be thinking of, they will be having questions on how do we really how secure is this and what controls you put in place. So I think we'll talk about that. The third thing we are going to look at is one example of actual deployment at, you know, which could be in house or, you know, in the client premises. And just go through what are the different security kind of controls you need to be aware of, okay? And I know this is like 15, 20 minutes session. You know, we'll not be able to kind of go into all the details, but I think at least we will touch upon, you know, what are the different areas you need to look at. Okay. So if you can just you go to a I just had the slides. Yeah. Actually you're sharing your skin. I think these are the things we will cover then. We'll have time for question and answer. I think it's also time for questions and actions. If you could share your questions as we go through, I think we'll see if we can try and address that during the session. Or we will come back at the end of the session. We'll come back to you with our response. So the first thing, if we can move to the next slide, I'll just spend a few minutes before I hand it over to our own, is this is security framework which we have come up with in consultation working with our cybersecurity team and also with the infect team. This is something which we use for development of, you know, our assets, including Gen. Izard and others. In her opening session, she mentioned about if you want to contribute back with certain assets, which either you have come up working with the clients or something which is more custom developed, as we have seen it in some of the market units, especially in the Europe. They designed some solutions and they've done some prototypes. All these assets have to go through this security framework. If you look at some of the key components, there's about five of them. One is the secure by design. I think the concept on which this framework is based, security something which is in built, which is thought through, which is part of the design. It is not something as a bolt on which you come and add later on. Any asset we develop, envisard or others or even if you are bringing some. I think it's very important as a first step is to go through the secure by design review. It has got several components. We start with things like security architecture, then we can really go through multiple things like how do you handle data encryption? How do you really look at the data protection, the access control, the threat modeling, and several other things. That is one very important aspect which we need to look at and that is one of the building block of the security framework we are using. The second area is on the application security one is of course you have the architected and you've designed it. But as you go through the next phases of development and deployment and testing, we have to really make sure that all the security best practices we talked about are adopted during the application development and deployment. And during that process, and of course we are going to give you some examples of the various scans we performed right from the code analysis to really look at how do we look at the data leakages or how do we really detect vulnerabilities And what is the process, not just around, you know, identifying the vulnerabilities, but also in terms of remediation. And depending on the criticality, there is an entire framework which we will take you through, which is around the application security. Uh, the third part I mentioned about the security vulnerabilities. I think to really look at how do, what is the governance process around this, both in terms of infrastructure and data and reporting structure and any kind of escalation, et cetera, required. So I think that is something we'll cover. Cdp, I think you all are very familiar with, so I don't have to really talk about that. But we have to really ensure that all the info controls which are critical for our clients of cut across several security dimensions like user access, like app development, data security, et cetera. All those are taken care as a part of the CDP. Murray already talked about, you know, the third party tools and of course, she mentioned more about, you know, the legal kind of risk which is related with the third party tools and how do we really consider that in this case? We really more look at the security posture of those third party tools. And just to make sure that are they using the security standards they're using? Are these standards aligned to the force standards which we have put in place? This is just a framework which we use and these are the building blocks. Now we will take you through the next level of details in terms of how this framework is cut across all the layers we have from the infrastructure to the layer and how those security controls are put in place. This, I'll hand it over to our own. He will take you through the next level of details, including the scans we perform during the development phase up to release. Thanks. So thanks for the introduction. Zack spoke extensively about the framework that we use and the different components of the framework. The core of the framework is what we call a secure by design. Which is essentially a holistic security framework covering multiple security layers across cloud, infra, app data network access and so on. Implementing secure by design ensures all the services are secure from the start from day one. Cally have the right risk mitigation and prevention actions taken from the word go right? These are the different components of the security design framework. It compares of your architecture review, where you have your design function documents reviewed with the SMEs who help identify any security gaps right at this stage of the design also includes threat modeling, where you get to know what's your threat surface and what are the countermeasures you need to take to prevent or mitigate threats. We also do assessment across hosting, cloud, in security across all the components of your hardware layer, including firewall, network, OS hardening, and so on. Then more important data privacy and security, where we look at the data classification of your application in Fp data, what are the encryption actions you have to take, masking, et cetera. And also in terms of data retention and disposal as well also covers identity access management, which gets into what are the access controls you have to put in place to ensure only the right resources have access to the data, right. And finally, the third party risk assessment security design, the underlying framework that drives all of what we build in terms of security. So. This slide essentially covers what are the security processes that are distributed across the life cycle. It's important to know which actions are needed at each lifecycle phase, right? As you see here, a few process cut across multiple phases of your life cycle. But you may want to initiate very early, right? If you've identified a EnI use case, the first thing you should do is contact the LLM, COE and share a use case and get it approved before you start any bill. The review use case is the right fit for geniI and advise how you need to proceed next. You also need to initiate your Scar design review that we just covered in the earliest slide. And then at Accenture, we have an inventory of all applications called a IR. You need to get your app registered in with the right info which includes data classification, app support legal technology and so on. Right. It's a very important step to get your app registered. Then you would also initiate a responsible I assessment, which is you need to initiate a responsible AI risk screening for your application to assess if your app is aligned to accentures data and AI principles and it complies with the responsible objectives, right? So you need to essentially fill a set of questions and check if your application has any potential risk and if it needs further responsible in legal review, right? And at the point of design itself, you need to initiate your CDP. You need to initiate your CDP plan and establish all the right controls, right? And then as you progress from design to build is when you would start initiating all the required security assessment scans, starting with your yourself assessing, right during the bill phase. Then you progress with your static code application scan dynamic application, scan containers, the API, open source software, to see if you're using any open source components that you need to remediate to get it review legal. Then as you progress through the testing phase, you need to register your application within the Cat tool to be sure compliant on all the export classifications for cross border transfer of data as well. The final step you take before you deploy is to do web applications to be sure your web apps completely devoid of any vulnerabilities and it's safe to be deployed. Of course, the P controls is something that you would, would constantly validate through the life cycle of your application. Finally, when you get to the client deployment, which we'll cover in the subsequent slide, the security actions are very client specific and subject to the process of approvals for each client. All of the actions that you take here are very specific to what we do with in Accenture. But when it comes to client deployment, there are additional actions to focus on which will cover in the upcoming slide. Now this covers the specifics of what are the applications that are embedded as part of the assessment process, right, Starting with super design, which we covered, which essentially is identifying all the right actions at the point of design and identifying any risks related to your design early. Then you get into do it your self assessment, where the developers are empowered with tools that they can proactively run and identify the volar piece in the bill. You would use a tool like Above Suite to run its analyzed source code, a binary code for Volpe tool like Fortify. These are only indicative set of tools, but you can also use other tools that's out there in the market as well. Then you get into dynamic scan because a lot of clients are interested to do penetration testing as well. Before we deploy, we also recommend doing ask and penetration testing where it assess the security of a running Webp by stimulating attacks. Right? The tool that we use there as microfocus then if using APIs or containers, obviously we need to run APA tests to be sure that your end points are protected. We run container tests to scan your packages. Run time, just check if they're anyval absolutely important before we deploy any of these packages into a client environment, right? And we use a tool like Prisma for that. Now you also need to look at implementing Deeps, which is integrating your security tools and process along with your bill cycle. We use tools like Fortify web inspect and code for deftops implementation for our assets. For it is mandatory scan of all the web Bps to detect your Ova top ten piece. Typically you do this when your product is ready and it's ready to be deployed to our clients. We use a black tech tool to analyze open source competence to be sure that the asset is compliant. We don't have any. We need violations with respect to open source components and libraries. We spoke about CDP earlier. Absolutely must to have CP controls identified. The controls are validated right through the life cycle. Cat is a very important tool. A lot of things they take through until deployment. But registering the app in the tool with respect to trade compliance, export classification, checking for cross border transfer, it's very important please ensure your apps are registered in the tool before we actually deployed our client as well. Especially what I quickly covered are the different scans that you would execute to secure assets. Starting with your secure by design and running through all the assessments before you actually deploy your application in production. Right now, Zach did speak about client deployment security. It's a very important topic when Accenture apps are deployed to clients using on prior dedicated instance models, security becomes a shared responsibility, right? So it's not just the responsive accenture, but there are certain actions that we need the client to fulfill as well before we deploy any asset to print or to a dedicated instance. So just to go to the left side for a few seconds, focus on the right side. What do you see? The right side are multiple security processes and the client deployment activities listed. So what do you see? 1-12 are essentially security processes that we just covered right, in the earlier slide. Starting with a security design review leading all the way up to container testing, penetration testing, and your van. Right? These are activities that the Accenture team owns and we'll be responsible for. Right. Actions 13 to 19 are essentially those that are required to be executed and owned by the client team. Actions like a network endpoint, exposing a network endpoint, deploying the containers configurations. These are some of the actions which are essentially required by the client to act upon before we start deploying any asset to the prim, or to the dedicated instance models. Right, what do you see on the left side are essentially different hardware and software layers, a set of processes and activities which is executed. Within each layer you see user public network access control and all of that. You would see the numbers being listed here. You would see app code, open source software. These are activities that you would do as part of your security assessments, but things like your public network and point access control network infrastructure platform, these are activities that you'd expect the client to own. The key take it from this slide is to understand what activities are owned and executed by Accenture and what are the activities that you'd expect the client to actually provide information and approvals for? That's pretty much all that we had to cover for security. We can take a couple of questions. There is already one question. Do you have any general light in bracket open source security assets available to identify the vulnerability at scale? I'm just trying No, we don't have at this point now, we don't have any get security assets. But of course we have our my security suite of it's a my security asset that encompasses a lot of tools that can help identify lies at scale. But within the Genk, we did a quick POC, okay, one of the use scales that we have to identify the vulnerability using that prompt engineering the text model, right? Okay, especially on the pop model, right, Posted on vertex. The challenge is that, okay, in terms of the token generation and all those things, we are not able to take this up to the next level in terms of scaling right piece of code as a POC, which worked out. Okay? But I think the model is not that consistent. Okay. We've been having certain issues. Will you be guys civil to help us in terms of looking at okay? And see how we can able to take this to the next level to scale it. Because generally, I mean the team that is responsible, okay, they do scan almost around 11,000 apps per month to identify some of the security vulnerabilities as such, right? Okay, so that's the scale that we are looking at. Okay? I just need to help in terms of looking at some approach and all those things. So who will be the point of contact with whom we can reach out? Yeah. Yeah, Good question. So we do have the cybersecurity teams across geographies, we can share the cyber security that can help with executing some of these scans and assessments. Okay. Can you help us with the PS details? I can share. Who can help you? Yeah, I think we probably will get back to you. Yeah, Sure. Sure. Okay. Thank you. So this side so we are going to install, for example, J. Izard into customer Maybe a basic question, into customer devices. Are you saying that before installing Jm. Vizard, I need to do thousands of scans in customer environment to check whether it is compatible and it's okay so that we put our asset over that. Is that the approach? No. So Z has already been certified for all the scans in and security guard rails. Right. So it has already gone through as an asset. It has gone through the secure design review and all the required application scans. Okay. Okay. You just need to if the client is interested to know what are the scans, you know, you can share the evidence of the scans. But all that we need to keep in mind is before you deploy the asset to the client, you need to just be sure that the other actions that the client is supposed to approve and take forward, those are in place. Okay, So now a little question. So once, you know, there might be a case that, okay, I need to integrate certain customer applications to our Z platform, right? So in that case, we do the scanning for those applications so that it integrates with us basically. There is no such scenario. Yeah, again, right, these are customer applications that you have to integrate from the client side into the genera, if it's running on a, on prime, a dedicated client instance, we need to get permission from the client to be sure that they're okay for us to run these scans. But again, varies from client to client because some clients cannot be willing to open the network for us to run those scans. We just it just depends on the client model that we operate. And the last point in the data security part, is there a way, I mean, is there a need from the LLM perspective because as we discussed earlier that the data, some of the other client data goes to the LLMs, right? I mean, which are provided with third party. So are we having any kind of a data security check over that? That Okay. Whatever goes in is not getting used somewhere else or some kind of filter monitoring. I'll take that question I think also asked this question and I think we know also kind of answered a part of it. Let me just share my screen and show you something. Because I think this question will come again and again to you. Also, when you're having discussion with the clients, let me just share my screen. You will see the response which what Microsoft as a part of the Enterprise Licensing Agreement we have. This is for the AzuropI. Don't know if you can see my screen. Yeah, I will share this link because I think it's very important if you can see this. Your prompt inputs and completions, your embeddings and your training data are not available to other customers, are not available to open, are not used to improve Openai models. Not used to improve any Microsoft or third party product or services. Are not used for automatically improving Azure models for you use in resource or to fine tune the Azuopenopine models which are available exclusively for you. Okay, so this is an article related with data privacy and security for Azuopena service, which we are using right now. Okay. So I think this will be handy even for some of the client discussion and it very clearly highlights that this data is not used. That is something also part of the licensing agreement. Okay. Thanks. This is Okay. Any other questions, please? One more question we can take Zach, you have shown us on the open part because we interface with other tools as well, right? Do we have a single kind of an understanding or an equipment? I think that's, you know, I would say principle we are working with. You know, I think as we extend it to other tools as well. I think the similar guidelines is what we are looking at. Because if you look at, see we talked about the secure by design. But if you look at even open, what they're doing is they're secure by design principles. Both in terms of making sure this identity access management is in place, the data encryption also availability of data, if you look at all those principles, you will see open is also following that. I think that's what we expect that most of the other vendors will also follow. But right now, since we are using open, I know that is what we are kind of adhering to and but I'm sure this would be applicable to other vendors as well. Yeah, thanks. Because in the foundation layer, we have other services also being used because I think we need to have a, an agreement with them so that data is protected. Absolutely. So I'll share this link and if there are any other questions please let us know. I think we'll get back to you. Vina will come back to, you know, with the support you need on the vulnerability scans. Okay? Sure. Thank you. Thanks. 