Conveying Your Message without Words
Communication conveys information. Whether we communicate through sound or through today’s technology of touch screens and automated voice recognition systems, information gets expressed both verbally and nonverbally. In this course, you’ll learn to recognize the outcomes of nonverbal messages conveyed using facial expressions, body movement, and gestures on your communication. You’ll explore how to convey messages of confidence, respect, and sympathy through nonverbal communication means. You’ll also learn best practices for communicating nonverbally in a virtual environment and how to identify the nonverbal communication areas that can vary between individuals and in different cultural contexts.
Table of Contents
    1. Video: Conveying Your Message without Words (bs_acm37_a01_enus_01)

    2. Video: Communicating with Facial and Body Language (bs_acm37_a01_enus_02)

    3. Video: Conveying Your Attitude Nonverbally (bs_acm37_a01_enus_03)

    4. Knowledge Check: Reviewing Your Skills in Communicating Nonverbally

    5. Video: Nonverbal Communication in a Virtual World (bs_acm37_a01_enus_04)

    6. Video: Honoring Differences in Nonverbal Communication (bs_acm37_a01_enus_05)

    7. Knowledge Check: Assessing Your Nonverbal Situational Skills

    8. Video: Let's Review (bs_acm37_a01_enus_06)

    Course HTML Resources

1. Video: Conveying Your Message without Words (bs_acm37_a01_enus_01)

From cave painting to touch screens, and hand gestures to body language, human history is filled with non-verbal methods of communicating. At times, our livelihoods, and sometimes our very lives, can depend on it. In this video, you'll discover the key concepts that will be covered in this course, including the use of facial expressions, body positioning, and hand gestures, as well as nonverbal communication in a virtual environment and how nonverbal communication styles can differ in individuals and cultures.

Objectives
discover the key concepts covered in this course
[Video description begins] Topic title: Conveying Your Message without Words. [Video description ends]
Our livelihoods, and sometimes our very lives, depend on our ability to communicate verbally and nonverbally with each other. This has been true for thousands of years and it's true today as well - although today we often communicate virtually with the help of technology such as touch screens and video conferencing.

How we communicate varies across cultures - whether it's different languages or nonverbal gestures. But the end goal is the same. We communicate to convey a specific message, understand others, and be understood.

I'm Jennifer Nash, a leadership consultant and speaker, and author of the book "Be Human, Lead Human." Based on my 25 years in the corporate world, there's one thing I know for sure - communicating effectively is vital to your success in life, leadership, and your career. To bring this course content to life, I have infused real-world stories throughout. This course offers actionable tools you can apply immediately to build and enhance your nonverbal communication toolkit.

This course content matters because while technology brings us closer together, it simultaneously creates division through screens. It's important to communicate virtually, but it's even more important to effectively communicate in person. In this course, you'll learn about nonverbal communication such as facial expressions, body positioning, and hand gestures. You'll learn to recognize the outcomes of nonverbal behaviors. You'll explore nonverbal ways to convey confidence, respect, and empathy.

You'll also learn best practices for nonverbal communication in a virtual environment, and how to identify the nonverbal communication styles of different individuals and cultures.

2. Video: Communicating with Facial and Body Language (bs_acm37_a01_enus_02)

Nonverbal communication can be more powerful than the words we speak. Experts agree that more than half of our communication is nonverbal. In this video, you'll explore how the outcomes of nonverbal messages can affect our workplace communications.

Objectives
identify the outcomes of nonverbal messages on communication
[Video description begins] Topic title: Communicating with Facial and Body Language. [Video description ends]
HOST: Many of us mentally rehearse the words we're going to say before meeting someone important for the first time, but few of us consider the impact of our facial expressions and body positioning. Yet these forms of nonverbal communication can be even more powerful than the words we speak. In fact, experts agree that more than half of our communication is nonverbal - some estimate it at as much as 93%.

Understanding nonverbal behaviors, in ourselves and in others, can help us build strong relationships and improve our work performance, whether online or face-to-face. With that in mind, it's important that we learn to identify the impact and outcomes of nonverbal messages on communication.

Jennifer Nash: Angela and Roxanne are startup cofounders, they're clients of mine. And in meetings with them, I have noticed that even though on the surface everything seems OK, there's a little bit of tension going on. And they've been very successful, they've grown the business to 7 figures in eight years. So there were a couple signals that told me that Angela and Roxanne's relationship was strained. So one of them was when Roxanne would speak, Angela would roll her eyes.

Another would be when Angela was speaking, Roxanne would cross her arms and push away from the desk and breathe very heavily. Nonverbal communication was critical to understanding the rift between Angela and Roxanne because on the surface everything looked fine. They were doing well on paper, they were very successful, their clientele was increasing.

They had, you know, demand coming in from different angles and new service lines they were starting. But when you notice that there are these different types of nonverbal behaviors that are actually very detrimental to the relationship, it informs how I was going to coach them, and how I was going to help them get through this difficult period. HOST: To begin with, nonverbal behaviors help establish connections. They can bolster first impressions, demonstrate authenticity, and positively impact the way a person reacts to an unpleasant message.

For example, you can create a friendly and positive connection with another person by smiling, nodding, and making eye contact every now and then. Or you can make eye contact when delivering negative feedback to let the other person know that you're empathetic and paying attention. A second purpose of nonverbal communication is to help regulate interactions. For example, when a person is about to wrap up and let the next person talk, they might make eye contact to signal the next person's turn. Alternatively, if the speaker can sense they're about to be interrupted, they might use a hand gesture to respectfully signal a person to wait.

In this way, gestures and facial expressions can help control or modulate the flow of conversation. A third purpose of nonverbal communication is to complete a verbal message, either by reinforcing that verbal message or by contradicting it. For example, pointing while giving someone directions will reinforce your message. So will patting your colleague on the back while praising their work. On the other hand, when saying, "I wonder if you can handle this project on your own," adding a wink will contradict your spoken message and let your listener know that you don't really mean what you say.

Finally, a nonverbal behavior may be its own message. Body positioning and facial expressions alone can be very effective means of communicating. For example, a coworker who frowns and crosses their arms might be signaling disagreement with your suggestions. A coworker who yawns and looks off into the distance during your presentation might be signaling that they're bored and distracted. Each of these is an effective way to communicate without saying a single word.

How aware are you of your facial expressions or gestures when you're communicating at work? How much of an effort do you make to monitor them? Once you start to notice your nonverbal communication, you'll recognize how prevalent and powerful it is.

3. Video: Conveying Your Attitude Nonverbally (bs_acm37_a01_enus_03)

Like it or not, other people use our appearance, our setting, and our body language to draw conclusions about us. How we present ourselves tells a story, one we can consciously shape. In this video, you'll learn ways to nonverbally express different attitudes.

Objectives
recognize how to nonverbally express different attitudes
[Video description begins] Topic title: Conveying Your Attitude Nonverbally. [Video description ends]
HOST: Whether we like it or not, other people use our appearance, our setting, and our body language to draw conclusions about us. How we present ourselves tells a story - and we have the power to shape that story. For example, we can choose to wear accessories and colors that convey a sense of power; we can fill our bookshelves with titles designed to impress others on a video conference call;

and we can stand with neutral arms and an open face to welcome conversation at a networking event. To positively shape the way others see you, it's important to recognize how to express different attitudes nonverbally. Let's begin with confidence. To express confidence nonverbally, sit upright with your feet flat on the floor, avoid crossing your arms, relax your face, smile, and make eye contact.

Someone seeing you for the first time might make decisions about your leadership ability based more on these nonverbal behaviors than on your actual role. This is because your expression and posture communicate that you mean what you say and will follow through without being arrogant or domineering. A secondary benefit of sitting like this is that it can make you feel more self-assured.

Jennifer Nash: So Joe is a new project manager, and he was onboarded during COVID and he was onboarded remotely, so he's never met any of his team members in person. And recently the company decided to have everyone come back to the office. Peter is Joe's boss, and Peter observed that Joe was sitting in his chair with his arms crossed and Peter felt like Joe was disengaged, like he had pulled away from the group. He didn't want to interact, and maybe he was even mad at someone in the group.

So Peter was wondering why Joe was behaving like this. So Joe told Peter when he asked, you know, that's interesting that everyone interpreted me as not wanting to engage or that I was distant from the group, he said I was actually, the room was freezing cold and I didn't have a sweater with me or a long sleeve shirt. So I was pretty cold and I was trying to keep myself warm. And this happened so often in meetings, right? When we don't have the information or we don't have the actual story, we make up information or a story to fill in the blanks.

And that's what happened in this group meeting. HOST: Next, let's look at showing respect. To express respect in nonverbal ways, it helps to physically bring yourself to the other person's level, lean in slightly as they speak, and nod in agreement at some of the things they say. Give them your full attention.

In the workplace, there are frequent conversations about goals, feedback, and conflict resolution. Adapting your nonverbal cues to show genuine interest in the person who's speaking - in other words, showing respect - is crucial in light of these sensitive topics. Finally, let's take a look at empathy, which is the ability to share in another person's emotions and thoughts, and is another key attitude in maintaining a positive workplace.

To nonverbally express empathy, pull your shoulders back a bit, keep a soft focus in your eye contact, occasionally nod your head, and keep your arms at your sides. You can use these nonverbal cues when a coworker tells you about their recent experience caring for a sick family member and how it affected their work performance. Or you can use them when delivering the news that your team has to work over the holiday weekend.

Nonverbally expressing empathy in these difficult situations shows that you understand and want to connect, and it helps build an atmosphere of support and trust. Think about the last time you spoke with a coworker. How did you hold your body? How much eye contact did you make? Were you sitting at the same level as the other person?

We often reflect on things we verbally say to another person, but it's important to remember that our nonverbal behavior has just as much of an impact. Use this knowledge to positively shape your interactions with others.

5. Video: Nonverbal Communication in a Virtual World (bs_acm37_a01_enus_04)

Communicating while on camera calls for very different skills than communicating face-to-face. It’s no longer enough to simply be visible on screen. In this video, you'll learn best practices that aid nonverbal communication in a virtual environment.

Objectives
identify best practices to aid nonverbal communication in a virtual environment
[Video description begins] Topic title: Nonverbal Communication in a Virtual World. [Video description ends]
HOST: When you speak during a video call at work, do you ever get the feeling that people aren't listening to you? They might be looking away from their screens, having side conversations with someone else in the room, or typing in another window. Such distracted behavior could indicate that your video presence isn't as engaging as it could be, and you need to strengthen your nonverbal communication skills for an online environment. Communicating while on camera calls for very different skills than communicating face-to-face.

With an increase in the number of people working remotely, and the negative emotions some people attach to virtual meetings - claiming they're boring, or they lack connection and context - it's not enough to simply be visible on screen. You need to adopt visual cues to show that you are as prepared, professional, and effective as possible. It's important to learn to identify best practices to aid nonverbal communication in a virtual environment.

When setting up a video call, first decide where and how to use the camera. Try to look directly into the camera to create the illusion of eye contact with your listeners. This conveys the message that you're interested and engaged. You should sit at an optimal distance so that the camera frames your head, neck, and shoulders. If you sit too closely, you risk making your listeners uncomfortable; if you sit too far away, you risk creating a feeling of disinterest or distance. Jennifer Nash: Laptop position is super important.

Let's be real, no one wants to look up your nose on the Zoom. So how do you get your laptop in the right place? From a setup perspective, you want to make sure that your laptop is sitting at, the camera of your laptop is sitting at your eyebrow level so that when you're looking into the Zoom camera or you're looking into the Google meet, you are in the right position. You can also use books to elevate your laptop. You can buy a stand that will help you elevate your laptop.

Another tip would be making sure that you have enough distance between yourself and the screen so that someone can see all of your face, not just half of it, because you're too close, or they can't even make out the features on your face because you're too far away from the screen. So, bad lighting, improper angle, improper background. All of those things combined, present an image of you. If you don't take these steps, people may think that you are less engaged than you actually are.

They may think that you're disinterested or that you don't care. And that's definitely not the message that you want to send. HOST: A second way to aid nonverbal communication in a virtual environment is to consider your background and appearance. Check your background for any distractions or clutter. Consider positioning yourself against a plain wall or using an appropriate virtual background. Present a professional appearance by dressing as though you were going into work.

Maintain an open and positive posture by sitting upright, keeping your shoulders relaxed, and uncrossing your arms. Check your lighting and make sure your face is clearly visible. If you're backlit, people may not be able to see you, suggesting an unprofessional approach. A third way to promote nonverbal communication in a virtual environment is to use hand gestures to convey naturalness.

People tend to use fewer hand gestures during virtual chats than they do during face-to-face conversations, but hand gestures during a video call can be a great way to animate your message and engage your listeners. Here are some tips: try standing during your next virtual presentation - you're more likely to use your hands that way. If you give three options for something, show three fingers to your listeners. To show a comparison of two ideas, use your right hand to suggest one idea and your left hand to suggest the other.

A fourth way to aid nonverbal communication in a virtual environment is to stay engaged. It's easy to click away from a video chat to work on something else, but don't try to multitask like this - people will notice and may think that you're not paying attention to them. Avoid looking away from the camera for too long as this can also suggest inattentiveness.

Look at the camera or the other participants and avoid looking at yourself; if you find this challenging, hide yourself in your own video display. Mute notifications from your phone and computer, and avoid other interruptions so that you are completely present. Lastly, smile and show interest. A sincere smile goes a long way towards conveying a positive attitude; the others in the group will feel that you're glad to be engaging with them.

A fifth and final way to aid nonverbal communication in a virtual environment is to pay attention to nonverbal cues from others. By noting the expressions and gestures of your listeners, you will know whether they're engaged or disinterested, and you can adjust your approach accordingly. If you see a lot of smiles or slow nods, your listeners are probably engaged and supportive.

On the other hand, if you see quick nods, your listeners might be communicating impatience, and you can move on to your next point. If you see crossed arms, your listeners may not be receptive to what you have to say. By noting these and other nonverbal cues in your audience, you can evaluate your ability to engage others, and if necessary, make an improvement plan.

You might even consider recording your presentation - with permission - to help identify areas for improvement. How aware are you of nonverbal communication practices in virtual meetings or presentations? Which ones have you tried? Consider incorporating these practices into your video conferencing to project your most prepared, professional, and effective self.

6. Video: Honoring Differences in Nonverbal Communication (bs_acm37_a01_enus_05)

Acceptable gestures in one culture may be considered rude in another, and some cultures may have different standards for non-verbal communication within a corporate environment. In this video, you'll explore some of the differences in nonverbal communication within and across cultures.

Objectives
recognize areas of differences in nonverbal communication within and across cultures
[Video description begins] Topic title: Honoring Differences in Nonverbal Communication. [Video description ends]
HOST: Think of a time when you saw something truly disgusting, and your face tightened in response. Or perhaps you had a warm loving thought and felt your face relax into an expression of joy. If this has ever happened to you, then you experienced two of the seven universal facial expressions, which are disgust, joy, anger, surprise, fear, sadness, and contempt. There is strong evidence that these facial expressions can be found in all cultures around the world; they unite us as humans.

Yet despite the universality of these facial expressions, deep differences exist in other facial expressions and other forms of nonverbal communication. Variations in culture, religion, age, nationality, and class can lead to different interpretations of the same nonverbal behavior. Acceptable gestures in one culture may be considered rude in another, and some cultures may have different expectations within a corporate environment, expecting more or greater nonverbal expression from individuals.

To become a more competent communicator, it's important to learn to recognize areas of differences in nonverbal communication within and across cultures. One area of difference in nonverbal communication is the amount of physical distance needed when people are interacting with one another. Everyone has a strong sense of their own personal space, but the amount of space varies depending on the situation, the relationship, and the culture of the people involved.

For example, while chatting you might stand a few feet away from a new contact to respect their boundaries, but stand much closer to an old friend. Two friends from Saudi Arabia would likely need less distance between each other than two friends from the United States. When interacting with coworkers, pay attention to their nonverbal cues to determine the best physical distance for a comfortable interaction and for establishing an effective relationship. Another area of difference in nonverbal communication is eye contact variances.

For example, confident people might maintain eye contact as an unconscious signaling of self-belief, whereas shy people might avoid eye contact. But the appropriate length of time that eye contact is held varies widely within and between cultures. Direct eye contact can signal interest and engagement in the US, but is considered aggressive or disrespectful in Japan and Korea. Jennifer Nash: When Bob first met his new boss, he extended his hand to shake just like he would in American culture. But Bob was in Japan and what he should have done was bow to show respect to his boss.

Bob's faux pas caused misunderstanding between him and his boss. It was taken as a sign of disrespect, but it wasn't intended that way at all. As a result of this disrespect that Bob showed in the meeting the relationship between Bob and his boss was very strained. And after a few weeks, Bob found himself back on a plane back to the United States. Through this experience, Bob learned that it's very important to prepare and understand the cultural customs where you're going to be doing business and understand what's acceptable in a different culture when it varies from your own culture.

HOST: A third difference in nonverbal behavior is touch comfort levels. The amount and type of touching that people feel is appropriate can vary widely. People from families in which hugging is common are likely to be more comfortable with physical touch, even when meeting someone new, than people from families in which touching is rare. In some places in Europe, it's common for friends to greet each other with kisses on the cheek; in the United States that's much less common.

A fourth area of difference in nonverbal messages is gesture interpretation. In many cultures, it's considered rude to point directly at someone or something. Even a simple nod can have multiple cultural connotations. In Bulgaria, moving the head vertically up and down means 'No' and moving it horizontally from left to right means 'Yes.' In the United States, the opposite is true. Again, recognizing what gestures your colleagues think are appropriate will help you understand how to communicate effectively with them.

A final area of difference in nonverbal communication is body movement and position diversities. In many northern European countries, slouching is considered rude. In Turkey, placing your hands in your pockets is considered disrespectful, as is sitting with your legs crossed in Ghana. Before traveling outside of your home country or even to other areas within it, do your part to avoid misunderstandings. Learn about variations in nonverbal communication between the new culture and your own.

Think about your last interaction with a person from a background or culture different from your own. What differences and similarities in nonverbal communication did you notice? Did they carry their body or make eye contact differently? Did they show one of the seven universal facial expressions? It can be satisfying and comforting to notice the nonverbal forms of communication that all people share, but we should prepare ourselves to recognize differences and to act respectfully when they emerge.

8. Video: Let's Review (bs_acm37_a01_enus_06)

In this video, you'll review and reflect on what you've learned in this course, Conveying Your Message without Words.

Objectives
reflect on what you've learned
[Video description begins] Topic title: Let's Review. [Video description ends]
Let's review what you've learned in this course. Nonverbal behaviors help establish connections with other people. They also help regulate interactions. They can complete a verbal message, either by reinforcing it or contradicting it, or they may be their own message.

You can learn how to express different attitudes nonverbally. For example, the way you sit and present yourself can express confidence. By leaning in and bringing yourself to the level of others, you communicate respect. And an open posture with eye contact and nodding can show empathy. There are best practices to aid nonverbal communication in a virtual environment: decide where and how to use the camera,

consider your background and appearance, use hand gestures to convey naturalness, stay engaged with your audience, and pay attention to nonverbal cues from others. Finally, there are areas of differences in nonverbal communication within and across cultures. Be aware of the amount of physical space needed between you and a colleague. Take note of eye contact variances, touch comfort levels, and various gesture interpretations. And learn about body movement and position diversities.

Course HTML Resources
•	Glossary: Conveying Your Message without Words
authenticity	Being true to one’s own character, or a state in which a person’s outward actions and words accurately represent their inner beliefs.
body language	Movements of the body, including facial expressions, body positioning, gestures, and eye contact, that are used to communicate.
nonverbal communication	A form of communication that relies on body positioning, facial expressions, eye contact, and gestures rather than words to convey a message.
personal space	The physical distance needed between two people to maintain a comfortable interaction.
verbal communication	A form of communication that relies on words to convey a message, including spoken words, written words, and sign language.
© 2022 Skillsoft Ireland Limited - All rights reserved.