Improving Your Reading Speed and Comprehension
Most people have been taught to read the same way - letter by letter, word by word, and line by line. That's fine for advancing through elementary school, but it's inefficient  for those who have a lot to read, a lot to understand, and very little time to accomplish it.
Reading speed and comprehension skills can improve with better reading habits.

This course examines how bad reading habits keep you from reading faster, more efficiently, and with greater retention. You'll learn methods for increasing your basic comprehension skills, and simple tips you can use and practice to increase your reading speed without sacrificing understanding.

Table of Contents
    1. Video: Improving Your Reading Speed and Comprehension (bs_apd13_a01_enus_07)

    2. Video: Reading with a Purpose (bs_apd13_a01_enus_01)

    3. Video: Reading Habits That Slow You Down (bs_apd13_a01_enus_02)

    4. Video: Reading the Information You Need (bs_apd13_a01_enus_03)

    5. Video: Using Your Hand to Speed Up Your Reading (bs_apd13_a01_enus_04)

    6. Video: Reading Multiple Words at Once (bs_apd13_a01_enus_05)

    7. Video: Improving Your Reading Comprehension (bs_apd13_a01_enus_06)

    Course HTML Resources

1. Video: Improving Your Reading Speed and Comprehension (bs_apd13_a01_enus_07)

Objectives
No Objective Provided
[Course title: Improving Your Reading Speed and Comprehension] Most people are taught to read the same way – letter by letter, word by word, and line by line. But that's an inefficient way of reading, especially for those who have a lot to read and very little time. In this course, you'll learn about the bad habits that keep you from reading more efficiently, and simple tips you can use to increase your reading speed and comprehension.

2. Video: Reading with a Purpose (bs_apd13_a01_enus_01)

Objectives
recognize the basic information that you need to start increasing your reading speed
[Topic title: Reading with a Purpose] Would you like to be able to read faster? Speed reading involves learning new reading techniques, and breaking poor reading habits you may have been using for years.

If you want to improve your reading speed, you first have to work out how fast you currently read. Different people read at different speeds. Someone who’s 12 or older usually reads between 200 and 250 words per minute. An average adult, on the other hand, can read about 300 words per minute. What about professors and high-level executives? On average, they manage between 550 and 750 word per minute. At the upper end of the scale, you’ll find competitive speed readers. They can manage an impressive 1,000 or more words per minute!

Say you want to find out your current reading speed. To do this, you need to time your reading. Here’s a simple technique. Pick a book and select a page at random. Count the number of words on the page. Assume this is the average words per page for the book. Then set a timer and read for ten minutes. When you’re done, count the number of pages you’ve read and multiply by the average number of words per page. For example, say you read five pages with 560 words per page, giving you a total of 2,800 words. Then divide by the number of minutes, ten, to get your words per minute, in this case 280. You can search for more sophisticated reading speed calculators online.

So now you know your reading speed and you want to improve it. But why? Take a minute to determine your purpose. People read for many reasons. Some want to grasp a certain message or find important details quickly. Perhaps you're learning something and you want to apply what you're reading. Or maybe you're reading for pleasure and just want to be entertained!

When you know why you're reading, you can adjust how you read. For example, if you're reading to answer a specific question, you’ll scan the text looking for keywords that might be associated with that question. But say you're reading in order to apply new knowledge. In this case, you’d read more slowly because you’d need to understand and analyze the information. And if you are reading to be entertained, you may not be too worried about your reading speed. You’ll just want to sit back and enjoy the reading experience.

Once you have a baseline speed and a goal, try applying the techniques outlined here. Then time your reading again and you may find your speed has improved.

3. Video: Reading Habits That Slow You Down (bs_apd13_a01_enus_02)

In this video, you will learn how to recognize bad reading habits that slow down your reading speed.
Objectives
recognize bad reading habits that slow down your reading speed
[Topic title: Reading Habits That Slow You Down] You’ve likely been reading for many years and you may have picked up some bad habits along the way. For example, many people read in the wrong environment. Try to always read in a brightly lit room as that’s the ideal reading environment. And remember to hold your reading material at a 45 degree angle. This helps prevent eye strain. In addition, look down, not up, toward what you’re reading.

Make sure you’re comfortable when reading. But be careful, if you’re too comfortable, you’re likely to get drowsy. This is why it’s a bad idea to read important or difficult material in bed. An upright, but comfortable chair is less likely to make you want to fall asleep!

And don’t forget to check your vision. Are your glasses up to date? If your eyes are strained, your reading will slow down.

Many people highlight important words or extracts when reading. But this can actually reduce both your reading speed and your comprehension of the material. People generally highlight material so they can come back to it later. And what’s the result? You end up reading the material twice because you have to go back and review the highlighted text in order to really learn it! Do you sometimes highlight too much information? Or maybe you waste a lot of time trying to decide which material is important enough to highlight. That isn’t efficient reading, is it?

As you read, you’re likely speaking every word in your head as you read it. This is called subvocalization. Naturally, it slows you down because you can’t read faster than you are able to speak. You can actually understand a word more quickly than you can say it. Some people also vocalize, which means they move their lips when they read every word. This slows them down even more!

So when you read, resist the temptation to vocalize and subvocalize. Try keeping your mouth busy when you’re reading. You could chew gum, suck on a candy, or hum, for example. If you move your lips when you read, hold your finger to them.

You might waste reading time by going back and re-reading a section of text. Of course, this is necessary when you simply don’t understand what you read. However, it can also become a bad habit. Some people tend to switch backward and forward with their eyes while reading without even realizing it. Sometimes you might become unconsciously fixated on a word or a phrase because it caught your eye.

If you don’t concentrate while reading, you're likely to skip back and re-read passages. When this happens, your brain gets a little lost and has to refocus. Try to be mindful when reading, and not let your eyes or mind wander.

By addressing these bad reading habits, you can help improve your reading speed.

4. Video: Reading the Information You Need (bs_apd13_a01_enus_03)

During this video, you will learn how to recognize how to read only the information you need.
Objectives
recognize how to read only the information you need
[Topic title: Reading the Information You Need] Remember when you first learned to read? You were probably taught to read across and down, right? And you took in every single word, sentence, and paragraph in sequence. But there’s a problem with this approach. It becomes difficult to distinguish the supplementary material from the core information that you’re trying to absorb. So if you want to increase your reading speed, you need to read more selectively. Read only the information you need!

The goal is to read quickly while processing key information efficiently. It’s good to start with a general outline of the material. If an outline isn’t provided, make your own mental picture of the piece you are reading. It’s a bit like drawing. You begin by sketching an outline, and then you fill in the detail as you go along.

So how can you begin to build up a good outline of the text? Well, read the title first and start thinking about the subject. Suppose you’re reading a book called Current Social Media Trends. What do you already know about the subject? And what do you need to know?

Next, read the table of contents. Plan to skim or even skip anything that isn’t relevant to what you need to know. Perhaps you want to focus on the use of video in social media, so you might skip chapters that outline the history of social media.

Next, scan the pages for clues about its contents. These clues might be headings, bullet points, diagrams or graphics, or bold text. You may also be able to quickly extract the main keywords on the page. All these clues will help you grasp the core information on the page without distractions.

If you are reading an article about, for example, viral marketing videos, read the first and last paragraphs of the piece. You’ll usually find the salient points there. And you can then decide which points you need to read more about.

Remember to be selective! Separate the supplementary material from the rest of the text by looking for the extras that authors usually add to make their writing more engaging. These might include examples or stories about how a viral video led to a 50% increase in sales. If you already get the point, you can skip that extra information.

Now start reading, but read the first and last sentence of a paragraph. And then skip to the next paragraph and do the same thing. If you feel like you already understand what the writer is saying about videos in social media, keep going!

When you read, you don’t have to read every word on the page. Use these techniques to help you quickly zero in on the core information you need.

5. Video: Using Your Hand to Speed Up Your Reading (bs_apd13_a01_enus_04)

In this video, find out how to increase your reading speed by using your hand.
Objectives
recognize ways to use your hand to increase your reading speed
[Topic title: Using Your Hand to Speed Up Your Reading] When you’re reading, your eyes don’t stay in a straight line. They naturally dart back and forth across a few words. However, you can train your eyes to read in a straight line. Using your hand or finger to guide your eyes will help force your eyes to follow.

Why don’t you read in a straight line? Your eyes have a natural tendency to follow moving objects. Suppose you're trying to focus on the television. Suddenly, your eyes are distracted when something darts across your peripheral vision. That natural behaviour is a safety mechanism that people developed to protect themselves. It warned them about dangers. And you can take advantage of it to increase your reading speed!

You can train your eyes to read in a straight line. Use your finger and run it under each line from margin to margin. If you prefer, you can hold a pen or stylus. Start with a slow pace and then keep a steady rhythm that is natural and free flowing. Don’t go so fast that it feels uncomfortable for your eyes. Your finger acts as a pacer that the eyes naturally follow. Practice this a few times, slowly increasing the speed until you find yourself reading faster.

You might prefer to use a more advanced technique, taking advantage of the power of your peripheral vision. Keep using your finger to underline, but now underline only the middle half of each line. Your peripheral vision will pick up the beginning and end of the line naturally. Keep your eyes following just above your finger at the top of the line you are underlining.

Again, keep a steady rhythm. And try not to stray to either side consciously. Why should you trace only part way? Because this stops your brain from spending time fixating on the margins, which have no text, and wastes time. Look only at the text in front of your finger.

These methods might sound tricky at first, but keep practicing until you pick up speed. You’ll be more in control of your reading pace because your finger determines your reading speed and focus. However, if you find that you don’t comprehend something, slow down. And don’t worry about missing a few words. Your brain processes more than you realize!

These methods are both useful and easy. But they will only work if you practice and push yourself to go faster.

6. Video: Reading Multiple Words at Once (bs_apd13_a01_enus_05)

Learn how to recognize groups of words when you are reading.
Objectives
recognize how to read groups of words
[Topic title: Reading Multiple Words at Once] Most of us read one word at a time. However, words in isolation rarely make sense. You need to string them together into phrases. For example, the word “house” doesn’t mean much on its own beyond being a place where someone might live. But the phrase “I love my house” gives more context and is easily understood.

To read faster, you can teach yourself to read phrases rather than individual words. Try to read groups of three to four words. Remember, this is a totally different way of seeing what you read. Your eyes don’t do this naturally. But you can still train yourself to do it.

To start, pick something light to read. Concentrate on seeing only clusters of 3-4 words. Then go back and read it again to see if you missed anything. Keep doing this until you feel like you’re not missing anything. For example, “I love my house because it is bright and airy. The sunshine streams in through huge clean windows.” See how reading this paragraph in clusters helps you speed up your reading.

Everyone has a different field of vision. For some people, it's two to three words. You may have a larger field, such as six to eight words. Practice you can figure out which range is best for you. You could start with a newspaper article with narrow columns – that will give you a good idea of what your field is.

Instead of clustering words together, you can divide a line of text into three sections. In other words, break the line into the beginning, middle, and end. Then try to fix your eyes only three times – once on the beginning of the line, once on the middle, and once on the end. Read the groups of words in each area. If the columns are very narrow, divide them into only two sections.

Another tip is to relax your eyes and face as you read. Don’t forget how powerful your peripheral vision is. You’re probably not realizing its full potential. You can do this if you relax and let your brain take over a little. For example, try looking slightly above the line of print. Then your eyes will more naturally float down the page.

As with any new technique, re-training your brain to read groups of words takes practice. Practice with simple text or newspapers. You can also check out some free online tools that will help train you to do this.

7. Video: Improving Your Reading Comprehension (bs_apd13_a01_enus_06)

In this video, you will learn how to identify ways to increase your comprehension while reading.
Objectives
identify ways to increase your comprehension while reading
[Topic title: Improving Your Reading Comprehension] You want to read faster, right? But you also want to absorb and understand the information. And you want to retain it for future use.

But how can you improve your comprehension? Well, one simple technique is to adjust your reading speed. Don’t read everything at the same speed. Say you want to learn about urban renewal. You download an article about recent housing projects in your city.

When reading the article, slow down when reading the first and last lines of each paragraph. These will usually contain the key information, so read them carefully! However, as you read the rest of the paragraph, you can increase your speed, or even just skim over the text.

You can also take notes. People use all sorts of note-taking methods, from index cards to just a simple notebook. In this case, your aim is to jot down the core content about urban renewal in your city. Write down only main ideas and keywords! Don’t rewrite the whole article.

When you read, one of your most important assets is your vocabulary. So if you want to make your reading more efficient, it makes sense to increase your vocabulary. When you read new information, you’re likely to encounter words you don’t recognize. In your urban renewal article, you might come across terms such as “eminent domain” or “gentrification.” So just skip the words you don’t understand, right? Actually, no! That’s a short-term solution. A longer term solution is to learn what the new word means. Look it up in a dictionary. Add it to your vocabulary arsenal. Then the next time you encounter that word, you won’t struggle with it.

The key to making your reading more efficient is to practice. But this doesn’t have to be hard work! You can also read for pleasure. Reading without worrying about comprehension or retention can motivate you to engage with the text, and read more often. You don’t have to read an encyclopedia or a scholarly article. Instead, pick something that’s at or even slightly below your reading level. This might mean reading a magazine or a young adult novel.

After reading your article on urban renewal, you might read a light human interest story about modern suburban commuting, for example. Don’t worry about pace or speed. Simply enjoy the process. Think of it as taking time off from training. Give your brain a chance to relax. Rediscover the joy of reading! And guess what? Your pace and comprehension improve faster if you take these sort of breaks.

Reading efficiently is about reading text quickly but it also involves reading carefully so that you understand what you are reading.

Course HTML Resources
•	Job aid: Read Only the Information You Need
Use this job aid to review the tips for reading only the information you need.
Lire uniquement les informations dont vous avez besoin
You can use these tips to help you read only the information you need.

Reading only the information you need
Technique	Application
Read the title and table of contents	Read the title first and start thinking about the subject. What do you already know about the subject? And what do you need to know?

Next, read the table of contents. Plan to skim or even skip anything that isn't relevant to what you need to know.
Scan the page	Scan the pages for clues about its contents. These clues might be headings, bullet points, diagrams or graphics, or bold text. You may also be able to quickly extract the main keywords on the page.
Identify core and supplementary material	Separate the supplementary material from the rest of the text by looking for the extras that authors usually add to make their writing more engaging. These might include examples or stories.
Read the first and last paragraphs of the piece	Read the first and last paragraphs of the piece. You'll usually find the salient points there. And you can then decide which points you need to read more about.
Read only the first and last sentence of the paragraph	Read the first and last sentence of a paragraph. And then skip to the next paragraph and do the same thing. If you feel like you already understand what the writer is saying, keep going!
Course: Improving Your Reading Speed and Comprehension
Topic: Reading the Information You Need

© 2016 Skillsoft Ireland Limited

© 2023 Skillsoft Ireland Limited - All rights reserved.