Analytics Literacy for Business Professionals
Enterprises increasingly rely on analytics for effective decision-making, optimization, and innovation, resulting in an increased demand for an analytically literate workforce. This course covers the benefits of building your analytics literacy, as well as techniques for doing so. This course also covers some common analytics pitfalls, and best practices for supporting effective analytics practices in your organization. This course was developed with subject matter provided by the International Institute for Analytics. (www.iianalytics.com)

Table of Contents
    1. Video: Analytics Literacy for Business Professionals (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_01)

    2. Video: Exploring the Value of Analytics Literacy (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_02)

    3. Video: Understanding Analytics Types (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_03)

    4. Video: Developing Analytics (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_04)

    5. Video: Advancing Business Analytics Applications (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_05)

    6. Video: Avoiding Analytics Pitfalls (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_06)

    7. Video: Encouraging an Analytical Culture (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_07)

    8. Knowledge Check: Building Analytics Literacy

    Course HTML Resources

1. Video: Analytics Literacy for Business Professionals (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_01)

After completing this video, you will be able to discover the subject areas that will be covered in this course.

Objectives
discover the subject areas that will be covered in this course
[Video description begins] Course title: Analytics Literacy for Business Professionals. [Video description ends]

As business becomes ever more complex, enterprises are increasingly relying on analytics to make crucial decisions, optimize operations, and drive innovation. And more business professionals are generating and consuming analytics in their everyday work.

At the same time, analytical business applications are becoming more sophisticated. That means savvy enterprises need more people who understand analytics and what they can do, more people with analytics literacy.

In this course, you'll learn the benefits of building your analytics literacy as well as techniques for doing so. You'll also explore some common analytics pitfalls, and best practices for supporting effective analytics practices in your organization.

2. Video: Exploring the Value of Analytics Literacy (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_02)

After completing this video, you will be able to recognize the benefits of building your analytics literacy.

Objectives
recognize the benefits of building your analytics literacy
[Video description begins] Topic title: Exploring the Value of Analytics Literacy. [Video description ends]

In today's business environment, there is an increased reliance on analytics. As a result, virtually any enterprise needs to build a foundation of data analytics literacy in their workforce. What exactly are analytics? They are the techniques and processes for turning data into insights in order to improve business decisions, performance, and results. Enterprises of all kinds are relying more on analytics to make decisions, optimize operations, and drive innovation.

As more business professionals generate and consume analytics in their everyday work, analytical business applications are becoming more complex and sophisticated. That means enterprises need more people who understand analytics and the benefits they can provide. Data literacy is defined as the ability to read, write, and communicate with data. And analytics literacy can be similarly defined as the ability to read, write, and communicate with analytics. The two are closely related because data is the raw material of analytics.

So, what are the benefits of data to an enterprise? Well, data can be packaged, for example, summarized or excerpted as useful business information, and that information can then answer business questions. What happened? Did our sales go up or down? Or what's happening now? Is our call center getting overloaded? These are the realms of basic business reporting and timely business alerts. The data is being used at face value, so to speak, to describe the past and present.

However, data can also be analyzed with quantitative and qualitative techniques of analytics. You can then turn the data's information into insight. With analytics at work, enterprises can ask and answer more complex and sophisticated questions about the past, the present, and the future. For example, how and why did things happen? What influenced sales to go up or down? Or what's the next best action? What product and price should we offer the customer right now? You could also ask what is likely to happen? What's the projection for product sales? Or even, what's the best or worst that can happen? How much might we improve supply chain efficiency?

So obviously, it benefits an enterprise to build up its analytics literacy. And this requires knowledge of the different types of analytics and how they are developed and deployed in the enterprise. Because organizations are actively trying to increase and improve their use of analytics, it also helps to understand how applications and organizations become more analytical. And because analytics are used in so many ways and so many business decisions, it's essential to be aware of the common pitfalls and limits in using analytics.

As well as benefiting the enterprise, analytics literacy can benefit you as an individual contributor. You can be more effective in using analytics in your work and providing feedback on the analytics you use. You'll be better able to speak analytics when working with business colleagues and analytics professionals. You'll also be able to identify opportunities for using analytics effectively. And you can set an example for your colleagues and help make your part of the enterprise grow more fact-based, forward looking, and analytical.

Analytics literacy begins with an appreciation for how analytics transforms data into new insights. Understanding how they do so, benefits both the business and the business professional.

3. Video: Understanding Analytics Types (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_03)

After completing this video, you will be able to distinguish between types of analytics.

Objectives
distinguish between types of analytics
[Video description begins] Topic title: Understanding Analytics Types. [Video description ends]

When an enterprise builds its analytics literacy, it's better able to convert its data into insights that can drive decision making and actions. This, in turn, can improve business processes and lead to greater innovation. In order to build analytics literacy, business professionals need to understand the different types of analytics you're likely to encounter.

The four main categories of analytics are descriptive, diagnostic, predictive, and prescriptive. Those categories have become part of the basic vocabulary of business analytics. They cover a broad continuum. And as you move along the continuum, the complexity and sophistication of analytical methods, as well as the degree of insight and potential business value increase.

The most basic type is descriptive analytics. Basically, this answers the question, 'what happened?' For example, how much of a product did we sell? Or how many new customers did we add? Descriptive analyses are about what happened, when, where, and involving whom. They count things and do elementary statistical analysis of averages, distributions, and trends. The results can be presented as straightforward line and bar charts, sometimes in time series. They're most often packaged as standard business reports. Descriptive analytics can in turn lead to more advanced questions but by themselves, they produce hindsight.

Next is diagnostic analytics. This answers the question 'why.' Why did product sales increase? Why did new customers make their first purchases? A simple form of diagnosis is to drill down into the data to look for more detail. You might then notice patterns or anomalies. Or it might spur you to respond to a change in a key performance indicator or an alert of some other kind. To diagnose more precisely how much one variable say price influences another, say sales. Analysts use statistical methods starting with regression models. Analyzing a variety of variables can reveal influences and patterns not visible to the naked eye looking at the raw data. Diagnostic analytics produce insight into what happened.

The next step of the analytics ladder is predictive analytics. There are two versions of the question here. One is, 'which works better?' What should we do A or B? Should we offer as a customer incentive a price discount or free delivery? The answer can be developed through randomized A/B testing. This involves trying each approach on a significant sample of customers and analyzing the results to determine which choice drives more sales or profitability.

The other version of the predictive question is 'what will happen next?' Or what is most likely to happen? This is the realm of business forecasting, of sales or profit for example. Predicted analytics considers not only how much one valuable can influence another, but also how the strength of that influence changes over time. Predictions like that require complex models of the interplay of multiple variables. Predictive analytics produce foresight.

Finally, there are prescriptive analytics. Here the question is, 'what should we do?' Sometimes the underlying decision is immediate. What's the next best offer to make to the customer right now? And sometimes the underlying question is more long term and strategic. To grow market share in this area, where are the best places to locate new restaurants? The question of what to do next is often addressed in the context of a broader question. What is the best that can happen? Answering that kind of question requires looking at a variety of "what if" scenarios.

Prescriptive analytics are generated by complex and sophisticated simulations and optimization models. They can also involve recommendation engines that advise on specific decisions, like what to offer this customer at this time. They typically use bigger data and increasingly incorporate AI, or artificial intelligence methods. There doesn't seem to be a ready made word for the type of insight that prescriptive analytics produce. However, you can think of it as smartsite.

Obviously, it's useful to be able to distinguish these four categories. However, bear in mind that the boundaries between them aren't fixed. Any given business application of analytics, perhaps a sales forecast, may incorporate elements of several categories. Understanding the types and continuum of analytics enables you both to appreciate how analytics are used and to find new opportunities to use them.

4. Video: Developing Analytics (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_04)

After completing this video, you will be able to sequence the steps in the analytics development process.

Objectives
sequence the four steps in the analytics development process
[Video description begins] Topic title: Developing Analytics. [Video description ends]

The more you understand the analytics development process, the better you'll appreciate its challenges. And this will make you better prepared to participate in analytics projects. The analytics development process can be understood in several different ways. However, in general, the process involves four key interrelated steps – frame the problem, prepare the data, test models, and deploy analytics.

So first, you need to frame the business problem or opportunity. It may be a problem with the performance of a business process, or an opportunity to innovate and attract more customers. It may be a set of questions to answer in order to make a strategic business decision, or a way to improve the batting average of decisions made hundreds of times a day. A small team of business people and professional analysts can frame a problem by discussing it in depth. What is the problem? When does it happen? Where, who is affected? How great is the impact?

The objective is to be as specific as possible about the problem itself. Uncover the often tacit assumptions behind how things happen today, and develop hypotheses about how things can improve with the help of analytics. The output of this first step should be a concise statement of the problem, what the analytics will attempt to do, and what actions will be taken based on the results.

The second step is to gather and prepare the data. To succeed in this step, you need to be imaginative. You may start with what data have we got, but quickly move to what data is needed to answer our questions. And in an ideal world, what data would we have to work with? Potentially useful data may come from a variety of sources. Some data may be readily available in the business and its information systems, and other data might be available outside. The data maybe in a variety of formats, both structured in databases, and unstructured data like text and social media feeds. New data may need to be generated.

Once the data is identified and gathered, you need to evaluate it for usefulness. Then, it should be cleaned up to be more complete and useful, and then integrated and formatted for use in analytics. Professional analysts and data management specialists may do most of the manipulation and wrangling of data. However, the business people on the project play essential roles in identifying, interpreting, and evaluating the data.

With data at the ready, you're ready to build and test models in search of the best way to represent the business situation and its solution. For example, analysts may explore the impact of individual variables and combinations of variables on a business outcome, such as the effects of price and promotions on sales. As the best combinations of variables are incorporated, the models become more accurate and often more complex.

To succeed in this step, you need to employ the right analytical methods for the problem and the data. You may even need to try several methods to see which produces the most accurate model. Again, the heavy lifting of model building and testing is done by professional analysts and data scientists. However, the business people on the team advise on the business logic of models and evaluate the practical usefulness of their outputs.

The fourth and final step is to deploy the analytics in the business. This happens in various ways. If the analytics support specific business decisions, the outputs may be packaged with visualization tools for decision makers. If they support business roles such as sales and customer service, the analyses and recommendations may be incorporated into people's workflows via their everyday information systems. However, the analytics might trigger decisions and actions instantly.

For example, should we issue credit to this customer, then the analytical models must be linked to and thoroughly tested with production systems. At this step, business people on the team play crucial roles introducing the new analytics to their colleagues, or to business managers and process owners. Then, they play ongoing roles, evaluating the business performance of the analytics. Deploying analytics must include measuring outcomes and closing the feedback loop. So future versions of the models or of similar models will work even better. From this description of the steps, it should be clear that the analytics process is both experimental and iterative.

For example, it can take several rounds of research and discussion to frame a business problem. Data may be gathered and evaluated in small or very large waves. Models are built, tested, and refined multiple times. And analytics may be rolled out in stages across the business, learning lessons with each local deployment. There's also iteration between steps. At any point, you may need to return upstream in the process. New data may cast the problem in a different light. Promising models may need better or additional data. Initial deployment may reveal an issue or opportunity overlooked. So a later step may lead to a return to an earlier step.

As you can imagine, with all that iteration and exploration, analytics development can become a chaotic process. Skilled team leaders prevent that in two ways. First, work is done in short and focused segments, typically following principles of Agile software development. And second, leaders guide their teams to determine when a model is good enough and ready for business use. They know when to declare a victory, and that the process cycle will continue. By carefully following the steps and the analytics development process, you can increase your analytics literacy and use analytics to benefit your enterprise.

5. Video: Advancing Business Analytics Applications (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_05)

After completing this video, you will be able to identify the stages of business analytics application advancement.

Objectives
identify the stages of business analytics application advancement
[Video description begins] Topic title: Advancing Business Analytics Applications. [Video description ends]

How do enterprises get better at using analytics? When you understand how progress is made, you're better able to see the next opportunities to put analytics to work. And you can see the gaps in analytics capability that you need to fill. First, consider how business applications can advance their use of analytics. Remember, the four types of analytics are descriptive, diagnostic, predictive, and prescriptive. You can imagine the business applications for any function. Marketing, supply chain, customer service or finance, advancing through those four types as you progress through the analytics process.

They start out mainly descriptive, then incorporate better diagnostics, then become more predictive, and finally, more prescriptive. In the process, insight and business value increase. That is in fact how many business applications advance their performance through analytics. Although analytics can help improve performance, enterprises today face a major challenge. Customers expect personalization. They want to be recognized and treated as individuals. And at the same time, the marketplace expects differentiation.

The enterprise needs to be seeing to create unique value rather than operating the same way the competition does. It's not enough then for business processes and applications just to become faster and more efficient. They also have to be more flexible, better able to differentiate what they do, and better able to treat a wide variety of customers individually. Data and analytics play big roles in enabling this level of flexible performance. You can picture how business applications advance as climbing up a ladder. At the bottom rung is the data foundation. You must start with good data.

Segmentation occurs at the next rung. Here, customers or other entities are grouped or segmented to recognize their differences. The third rung involves differentiated action. In other words, different groups are treated differently. On the fourth rung, you advance to predictive action. Put simply, you predict what's likely to happen and act accordingly. With this information, optimization can take place on the top rung. The business process is optimized perhaps in real time. Consider how this advance might work in a supply chain process as an example.

At the bottom rung are comprehensive product and supplier databases. Products are segmented based on factors like cost, availability, and use. Based on their groupings, they are processed differently. On the fourth rung of the ladder, product needs are predicted with precision and replenishment orders are issued automatically. And at the top rung, the supply chain flow is continuously optimized. As they climb the ladder, these business applications move from descriptive analytics all the way to prescriptive analytics with the added dimensions of segmentation and differentiation.

Let's turn to how organizations at large get better at analytics. It's not enough to have great data, or the latest technology, or even the best data scientists. Seven critical success factors are needed for business analytics to advance effectively. First, you need data of high quality in terms of completeness, accuracy, timeliness, and accessibility. Second, there must be enterprise commitment to analytics reflected in strategy for using analytics in the business. Third, you need leaders who embrace analytics and sponsor analytics initiatives. And fourth, the enterprise must set targets and objectives for analytics initiatives that are important to business performance.

Next, you need technology including the various tools and infrastructure for building and deploying analytical models and applications. Sixth, success depends on having analysts who together bring the necessary mix of quantitative and technical skills, business knowledge and experience, and interpersonal skills. And finally, you need the analytical techniques used to build analytical models and their surrounding business applications. These seven elements must all be present, and they must be in rough alignment for organizations to succeed with their analytics initiatives. It doesn't work, for example, to have good data without skilled analysts or vice versa.

By looking across these elements, you can see the capability gaps that need to be filled. These seven elements must also advance in reasonable alignment as the organization's analytics capabilities mature over time. Enterprise has become more analytical by moving forward on all seven fronts. When you understand how analytical applications and organizations advance, you can see the next opportunities to put analytics to work.

6. Video: Avoiding Analytics Pitfalls (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_06)

After completing this video, you will be able to recognize the most common mistakes in using analytics.

Objectives
recognize the most common mistakes in using analytics
[Video description begins] Topic title: Avoiding Analytics Pitfalls. [Video description ends]

As you become more familiar with analytics, it's natural to also become more enthusiastic about what analytics can do. However, you need to remain alert to how you can use analytics and what can go wrong. Being fully conversant in analytics includes recognizing and avoiding the common mistakes people make with analytics. And you need to be mindful of the limits of what we can do with analytics. With this in mind, you need to be aware of eight common mistakes with data analytics. It's important to know what they are and understand them so you can avoid them.

The first mistake is lacking an objective. Analytics initiatives should begin with a clear and detailed statement of the problem or opportunity being explored and the objectives of the analysis. If you start looking at the data without clear intent, it's likely to lead you in unproductive directions. Ensure you approach analytics with a clear business objective in mind.

The next mistake is having insufficient data. The most common problem may be drawing conclusions from too small a sample of data, but there are other pitfalls. Data may be incomplete or erroneous and in need of cleansing. Data may be too old and therefore out of date. Or maybe it's not old enough. Remember that you need sufficient history to make projections. Always make sure you have sufficient data from which you can draw logical conclusions.

The third common error is tracking and analyzing too many metrics. Especially when building dashboards for decision makers, there's a temptation to track and analyze too many metrics in too much detail. Information overload becomes analytics overload. It's important to identify the key metrics you need to make business decisions and focus on those.

The next common pitfall is mistaking correlation for causation. Ice cream and sunglasses sales may track together but neither causes the other. You need to test the connections and influences between variables statistically. Don't rely on your ability to see patterns in the data just by eyeballing it, you may have tunnel vision. Just because items are linked doesn't mean that they are causally related.

A fifth pitfall is mistaking statistical significance for business significance. Analytics may reveal an opportunity to raise the revenue of the average sale by 5%. That sounds very significant, but what's the required investment? And what's the overall impact on the business? Bear in mind, the business impact of implementing any analytics recommendations.

Another mistake is ignoring outliers. They may be early warning signals. If there are dramatic but isolated drops in daily sales, you may want to follow up with both quantitative analysis and qualitative investigation. But it's also a mistake to fixate on outliers. You don't want to add permanent sales staff in response to isolated peaks in daily sales. When you notice outliers, investigate them to unearth the root causes.

The seventh mistake is improper tool and methods selection. People tend to use the analytical tools they're most familiar and comfortable with but those may not be the best tools for the job. It helps to have analysts with different experience on a project team, so a greater variety of methods and viewpoints can be applied. Also avoid the pitfall of using the latest analytics technology because it's new, not because it's needed. Carefully assess each tool and method before deploying it.

The eighth and final pitfall is drawing conclusions prematurely. Test the assumptions and hypotheses regularly. If the analytics involved formal experiments, always use a control group. Measure results and use them as feedback to improve the models. Otherwise, you're forfeiting an opportunity to improve the business. Always close the feedback loop before drawing your conclusions. Those are specific mistakes.

You also need to recognize and work within the broader limits of analytics. There are three types of limitation – practical, legal, and ethical. First, practical limitations. Analytics are only as good as the data they use and the analysts who build the models. Even in a narrow business domain, analytics can never fully represent a situation in all its variety and complexity. That's why business and technical judgment are essential at every step of the way – from setting objectives and selecting data to measuring the accuracy and usefulness of results.

Second, consider legal limitations. Analytics must not breach the privacy of customers or anyone else whose data is used. Regulations are getting more specific about what and how data is collected, who sees it, and how it is used. And customers are gaining more rights over their data to see, update, or delete what organizations have collected about them. Heed this warning. Enterprises maybe obeying the letter of the law, but not meeting the expectations of their customers regarding how the data is used.

Finally, bear in mind any relevant ethical limitations. Analytical algorithms must not reflect unfair biases or otherwise violate the ethical standards of the enterprise or its stakeholders. To take a common example, credit scoring algorithms must not disadvantage women or minorities. Such biases, however, can easily be introduced if the algorithms work on historical data that reflects discriminatory practices of the past. It is essential to consider potential bias in historical data before using it. Ethical considerations often overlap with legal limits are taking on greater urgency as organizations employ more artificial intelligence or AI techniques. AI technology is highly automated, and for the most part, still opaque.

In other words, how the data is used and how the models draw conclusions are not transparent. Biases may be propagated in untraceable ways. Also when algorithms determine what information people see, that raises concerns over censorship, manipulation, and freedom of choice. If the business application of analytics requires transparency and accountability, the applicability of AI may be limited. Ethical choices are seldom simple matters of yes or no. And the ethics of analytics is a new and evolving field. Until both laws and public preferences are clearer, enterprises should play it safe.

Validate analytical approaches to make sure not only that they are legal and ethical, but also that customers will find them acceptable. To be fully conversant in analytics, you need to be aware of these limitations and avoid the common mistakes that can be made.

7. Video: Encouraging an Analytical Culture (bs_dgt60_a01_enus_07)

After completing this video, you will be able to recognize best practices for establishing and supporting an analytical organizational culture.

Objectives
recognize best practices for establishing and supporting an analytical organizational culture
[Video description begins] Topic title: Encouraging an Analytical Culture. [Video description ends]

Building an analytically literate workforce requires the efforts of everyone in the organization beginning at the top. In any enterprise that seeks to be more analytical, the CEO and senior management have special degrees of responsibility. They sponsor analytics initiatives and invest in analytics resources. They also incorporate analytical capabilities into the performance review and staff development processes of the organization. And they shape the cultural norm to become more data driven and analytics literate, serving as a model for management and ultimately the entire organization.

However, it's not just up to the organizational leadership team to contribute to an analytics driven culture. Anyone can be an analytical leader at any level of the organization. There are some key best practices for being an analytical leader and establishing an organization-wide analytical culture. First, if you use data and analytics consistently in your work and decisions, you set an example. Seek and generate new data, and analyze and test hypotheses and options rigorously. Next, set expectations that your colleagues apply analytical methods too. Engage them in fact and analytics based discussions. Coach and encourage them in improving their analytical knowledge and capability.

Leaders and managers should set these expectations for their teams and direct reports. Third, push for ongoing improvements. Always be on the lookout for ways to improve business work and processes through better data and analytics. Look for opportunities at the intersections of functions, not just within your own. Also, actively engage others, work with the analysts. Engage them to help you make the most of your data and analytics. And if you are the business expert on an analytics project, all the better. You can be active throughout from framing the problem to measuring the results. And serving as a model and inspiration for others, fostering knowledge and enthusiasm for the benefits of analytics.

Finally, continue your learning and development. Aim to learn about analytics, both on the job and by reading, studying, and talking with others whose work is shaped by analytics. Employing these best practices in your organization enables you to put your analytics literacy to work. As the roles and importance of enterprise data and analytics continue to grow, the value of your analytical literacy and capability will grow as well.